Content
"letter

India

Sandbox Collective

bohemian canvas paintings

social distancing

Ashok Nagar

Imagine receiving afrom an anonymous sender. Imagine replying to this letter. An exchange that takes place bypost. See-Saw 鈥?a collaborative initiative byand supported by Goethe-institut / Max Mueller Bhavan Bangalore -- began as an exercise to see how we engage with the idea of the 鈥榦ther鈥? This was an attempt to collectively reflect on themes of identity, prejudice, people and communities, and the results will be out on a website. The portal will have the 80+ artistic responses, notes and letters that were born from this exchange, courtesy the A 10-week artistic exchange between anonymously paired Bengaluru-based artists via snail mail.Amp up the walls in your home withor pages of your sketchbook with bohemian vibes by signing up for this online workshop. Create a set of five unique boho-style artworks inspired by the women of India & their beauty. This workshop will focus on making boho colour tones work with outline drawings & teach you how to frame your artworks.Organised Madness is a five-piece band which mainly holds its roots in English electronic/alternative rock. The band has performed numerous gigs over the years, and you can now watch them live. Join in with your gang for a great evening and let your hair down. Please note: Allnorms have to be strictly followed."
"""Protests and resistance do not necessarily follow the same pattern everywhere in the world. Every country, every context offers its own motivators, its own catalysts,"" explains Indian publisher Urvashi Butalia during the press conference of the Goethe-institut's ""Frequencies. Sharing Feminisms"" festival.

""However, one commonality of feminist protests around the world is the unique way in which feminists have developed their own forms of protest.""

Art as a medium of resistance

Urvashi Butalia has been committed to women's rights and to giving a voice to discriminated ethnic groups in India for more than 40 years. The author and publicist was the co-founder of India's first feminist book publishing house and has been running her own publishing house since 2003. Together with textile artist Aram Han Sifuentes and Afghan artist Nabila Horakhsh, she opens the three-day festival that begins on May 19.

Sifuentes designs protest banners and will lead a workshop related to them during the festival. Horakhsh uses her colorful and expressive images to rebel against the patriarchy in her country 鈥攎ore recently against the resurgent Taliban that has been trampling on women's rights in Afghanistan.

The interdisciplinary festival, organized by the Goethe-institut in Berlin, will provide insight into the unifying elements of feminist protest cultures around the world, but also aims to shed light on individual contexts.

""We talk about feminisms in our project,"" says Nadine Siegert, who has headed the Goethe-institut in Lagos, Nigeria since 2021. She says it important to speak in the plural especially with regard to the African continent with its more than 50 countries as the backgrounds and thus the protest movements in the respective states vary significantly.

""South Africa is very well known for its very progressive, very modern constitution,"" Siegert continued during the press conference. ""In the constitution of South Africa, not only women but also groups such as the LGBTI community are granted a lot of rights (...) Unfortunately, this often looks very different in reality.""

Siegert mentions, among other things, the terrifying example of ""corrective rape:"" lesbian women in particular face the risk of being raped in South Africa with the aim of ""correcting"" their sexual orientation. This is also a reason why, according to United Nations estimates, South Africa is the country where the most women are raped worldwide.

Siegert goes on to point out that domestic violence against womenhas risen sharply during the COVID lockdown in South African metropolitan areas such as Johannesburg. The number of femicides鈥?the killings of women because of their sex 鈥?has also increased dramatically worldwide.

In Aram Han Sifuentes' workshop, participants learn how to make protest banners

The fact that sexualized violence is not a regional but a global problem will be discussed, among other things, during the panel discussion ""Feminicides and Violence against Women"" on May 20. Two of the speakers, Hannah Beeck and Lujan Pinelo, started the online database Femi(ni)zidmap a few years ago, which documents murders of women in Germany. Other speakers on this panel include lawyer Valeria Espana, who examines court sentences and prosecution in various countries in South America, and Indian writer Meena Kandasamy, who writes about trauma and violence against women.

Feminism is not a 'privileged' concern

Protest, resistance and the fight for more equal rights are topics that are not only pushed forward by women living in cities, but that also affect women in rural areas, as underscored in the comic book series ""Movements and Moments 鈥?Feminist Generations."" Initiated by the Goethe-institut Jakarta, this project presents 16 selected stories from 14 countries in the global south. Besides women's rights, the stories also deal with ecological activism, climate change or the struggle for education and the rights of LGBTIQA+ people.

At the project presentation on May 20, speakers Faye Cura and Nina Martinez will present the comic ""Let the River Flow."" It is the true story of Leticia Bula-at, also known as ""Mother Tining,"" a woman in her 70s of the Naneng tribe in Kalinga in the Cordillera region of the Philippines.

She protested against the construction of a World Bank-funded dam that would have flooded the village of Naneng and other villages in surrounding provinces. The struggle of the women and men against the National Power Corporation and the Philippine police forces lasted more than 40 years. They braved violence, kidnapping and torture. The dam was not built because of their stubborn resistance. To this day, Mother Tining and other indigenous activists continue to resist corporate and government actions that could harm the Chico River and its surrounding lands.

Networking is very important for women in their struggle for more rights

The struggle for more rights spans many generations, as Mother Tining's story shows. Urvashi Butalia confirms they are women of her age. ""We have gray hair. We've been around so long that over the years we've learned not to let [depression] overtake us.""

The festival, ""Frequencies. Sharing Feminisms"" gives over 50 activists from around the world a platform in Berlin.

Interested parties outside of Berlin can watch some of the events focussing on the fight for women's rights.online. Feminists in Africa increasingly turn to the Internet to network, including the website of the ""House of African Feminism"" project, which was co-designed by the Goethe-institut and will also be a topic at the festival.

This article was originally written in German."
"Bengaluru

Infinite Library

Jorge Luis Borges

Library of Shadows

Library of Navigation with Polynesian Navigation

Sheshagiri Kulkarni

.

Michael Heinst

Visitors can view a sea with dolphins and marine animals roaming around 鈥?Sheshagiri Kulkarni, Goethe-institute

Mika Johnson

Explore a boundless library through a state-of-the-art, futuristic virtual reality (VR) installation organised by Goethe-institut/Max Mueller BhavanGoethe-institut/Max Mueller Bhavan,is coming up with a virtual reality (VR) installation based on an entire library for citizens to explore this weekend. The, a VR Installation set up at the institute, will give visitors a feel of future libraries.The experience will be through a gamut of high-end technologies such as QR code games, holograms, 3D-printed objects, audio-visual works, and the project鈥檚 central piece: a vast VR library set in a cave. The concept is inspired by the novel 鈥楾he Library of Babel鈥?by Argentinian writer, who created a library that was infinite, representing the universe.Visitors with a headset and hand controller can enter the virtual cave that houses the entire library and will get to experience a vast virtual reality space set in a cave with three virtual rooms. The three rooms are calledwith puppetry from Karnataka, Library of Elements with European Alchemy, and鈥淲hen a visitor enters the virtual cave wearing a headset, they will encounter a beach with a canoe waiting. The canoe will take the visitor to the open sea with dolphins and other marine animals roaming around,鈥?said, head, library and information, Goethe-institut / Max Mueller Bhavan.While the three current pieces are expected to expand in the future, the Institut, through this installation, would like people to immerse themselves in this VR experience and get excited about these new forms of artistic expression that modern technology has to offer.鈥淏engaluru is indeed a culturally vibrant, very diverse city and closely associated with the IT industries. The city exudes a lot of openness and embraces new experiments with open arms which is why it is a perfect fit for the installation,鈥?said Dr, director, Goethe-institute/Max Mueller Bhavan.While there are no concrete goals within the piece itself, the goal of the project is to create a sense of wonder in visitors.鈥淲e want visitors to leave each installation with a sense that they鈥檝e explored something amazing and want to return to keep exploring, just as how a library itself works. One never reads all the books in a library in one visit, they must keep coming back to keep exploring, our piece works the same way. At the same time, we do hope to broaden people鈥檚 awareness about the various knowledge systems we are sharing with them,鈥?said, creative director, The Infinite Library.The duration of this 3-D virtual experience is about five to eight minutes. The installation is open to all from May 20 to May 22 between 10 am and 7 pm at Goethe-institut/Max Mueller Bhavan through online registration."
"With faces to the sun

A recent research conducted in Northern Ireland and England said that children who spend more time 鈥減laying adventurously鈥?have lower symptoms of anxiety and depression. Even as the times we live in make it difficult for children to play outside, climb trees, ride bikes or jump off high surfaces, the study showed that such activities help build resilience and give them the confidence to face uncertainty better. It also helped prevent mental health problems. The research conducted among parents of children, aged 5 to 11, inferred that children need to encounter challenges and face risks in everyday play for their emotional and mental well-being. It also called for investing in natural spaces and well-designed parks that encouraged children to play with freedom and abandon.

Grow Your Own Greens

A beautiful book on food literacy called Zora鈥檚 Zucchini by US-based author Katherine Pryor, finds its way into a workshop organised by the British Council, India, this weekend. Titled 鈥淒esign your own vegetable garden with Zora鈥檚 Zucchini鈥? this Zoom workshop to be held on May 28, at 4 pm and May 29 at 6 pm, will introduce children to the story of the little girl who grew just too much zucchini, and help them design their own vegetable garden, even write a creative recipe. Registration: Rs 500 (for British Council members), Rs 700 (for non-members). For further details, mail: IndiaLibraries@britishcouncil.org

Food Memories

Is there anything a warm hug and a grandma鈥檚 recipe can鈥檛 fix? Listen to the beautiful story of Paati鈥檚 Rasam, written by Janaki Sabesh and Dhwani Sabesh, organsied by Karadi Tales and Goethe-institut Chennai, on May 28, 4-5pm. The session, meant for children aged 4-12, will be in English (Sabesh) and German (Anjali Kothari). It promises to be an interactive session around the beautiful story of Malli, the little girl, who finds joy and meaning in her Paati鈥檚 (grandmother) cooking. For details, contact: 044-28331645/1314 or email: library-chennai@goethe.de

Floral stamp

鈥淧rinting With Flowers鈥?is a workshop that Nila House, Jaipur, is organising for children ages 6 to 10, on June 4, from 10.30 am to 1.30 pm. The idea is to use flowers and transfer print them on fabric and paper. This eco-printing process promises to be super fun as children can let their creativity run as wild as the foraged flowers and leaves they collect. Materials will be provided by Nila House, though participants can bring flowers, too. Registration: Rs 600. For further details, email: info@nilajaipur.com

Advertisement

Thread Bare

At the Dr Bhau Daji Mumbai City Museum, Mumbai, lies the secrets to silk. In collaboration with STEAM Academy, they will conduct a Zoom session 鈥淔rom Cocoon to Silk鈥?on May 26, from 11 am to 12 pm. Moving from the fascinating biology of silkworms to the history of sericulture, the talk will be presented by Jasvinder Kaur, and curated by AP Jayaraman, founder, STEAM Academy. Appropriate for children in Grade 5 to 8. Visit: http://www.bdlmuseum.org for registration.

For all the latest Parenting News, download Indian Express App."
"A school dropout at 13, bride at 15, and widow at 19, Godavari Dange grew up against a backdrop of mounting debt, wilted crops, and recurring disaster in the epicentre of India鈥檚 agrarian crisis, Marathwada. Driven by her personal tragedies and everyday exclusions of other marginalised women in the region, Godavari has spent over two decades in feminist organising around building Indigenous, sustainable climate solutions such as the innovative 鈥渙ne-acre model鈥? Ever since, supported by NGO Swayam Shikshan Prayog, she has backed over 50,000 women in Marathwada and has addressed various public platforms. This is an excerpt from a comic book telling the story of her life and work.

Reetika Revathy Subramanian is a journalist and researcher from Mumbai, India. She is currently a PhD student and Gates Cambridge Scholar at the University of Cambridge Centre for Gender Studies, UK. Maitri Dore is an architect and freelance illustrator from Mumbai, India. She is currently pursuing a PhD in cultural heritage conservation at the University of Gothenburg, Sweden.

Raindrop in the Drought: Godavari Dange, with text by Reetika Revathy Subramanian and illustrations by Maitri Dore, was produced as a part of the 鈥淢ovements and Moments 鈥?Feminist Generations鈥?project instituted by Goethe-institut Indonesien."
"The withdrawal of an invitation to Palestinian poet and activist Mohammed El-Kurd from a conference organised by Goethe-institut in Hamburg, Germany, has drawn a sharp reaction from British-Pakistani writer Mohammed Hanif, who announced his own withdrawal from the conference as a mark of protest on Tuesday.

Buy Now | Our best subscription plan now has a special price

In a tweet, Hanif, author of Red Birds (2018), Our Lady of Alice Bhatti (2011), A Case of Exploding Mangoes (2008), wrote, 鈥淲ithdrawing from @goerheinstut鈥檚 Hamburg conference where they first invited and then disinvited Palestinian journalist and poet Mohammed El Kurd. Reason is even more offensive. Apparently Kurd is not respectful enough towards Israel. How do you say bugger off in German?鈥?
鈥嬸煔?Limited Time Offer | Express Premium with ad-lite for just Rs 2/ day 馃憠馃徑 Click here to subscribe 馃毃

Scheduled to be held from June 23 to 26, the 鈥淏eyond the Lone Offender 鈥?Dynamics of the Global Right鈥?summit intends to 鈥渇ocus on the impact of far-right movements and their global entanglements.鈥?In a series of tweets on June 17, the Goethe-institut in Hamburg announced its decision to disinvite El-Kurd. 鈥淎fter some consideration, the Goethe-institut decided that Mohammed El-Kurd was not an appropriate speaker for this forum: in previous posts on social media, he had made several comments about Israel in a way the Goethe-institut does not find acceptable鈥︹€?
Withdrawing from @goerheinstut鈥檚 Hamburg conference where they first invited and then disinvited Palestinian journalist and poet Mohammed El Kurd. Reason is even more offensive. Apparently Kurd is not respectful enough towards Israel. How do you say bugger off in German? 1/3 鈥?Mohammed Hanif (@mohammedhanif) June 21, 2022

Reacting to the withdrawal and announcing his own decision to boycott the conference, Hanif wrote in another tweet, 鈥淢ohammed El Kurd鈥檚 house was taken over by settlers when he was elven (sic). Kurd and his sister Muna have been protesting since they were children. Haven鈥檛 read much Goethe but I don鈥檛 think he wanted the world to be respectful towards a ruthless apartheid regime.鈥?Hanif was supposed to speak on the 鈥渄ynamics of right-wing structures鈥?at the conference.

Also Read | | Books offer tips on eco-conscious lifestyle

The 24-year-old El-Kurd, who lives between New York and Sheikh Jarrah, an occupied East Jerusalem neighbourhood where Palestinians face forcible expulsion, has been raising his voice against the violence against his people over the years. El-Kurd has studied poetry at the Savannah College of Art and Design, in Georgia, US, and is pursuing an MFA in poetry at Brooklyn College. He is currently the Palestine Correspondent for The Nation. RIFQA, his debut collection of poetry, was published by Haymarket Books in 2021. El-Kurd and his twin Muna were also featured in the Time 100 List last year for challenging 鈥渆xisting narratives about Palestinian resistance through viral posts and interviews, humanising the experiences of their neighbours and pushing back against suggestions that violence was being predominantly carried out by Palestinians.鈥?
鈥?馃摚 For more lifestyle news, follow us on Instagram | Twitter | Facebook and don鈥檛 miss out on the latest updates!"
If you're looking to watch something off the beaten streaming path this week, take a scroll through "New Directions: 20 Years of Young German Cinema ," a free online series hosted by The Goethe-institut.Among the gems in the lineup is "No Hard Feelings," a sweet and sour queer romance from Iranian-German filmmaker Faraz Shariat. Parvis (Benjamin Radjaipour), a young gay man and the son of Iranian exiles in Germany, lives a proud and carefree life. We first meet him when he's voguing at a nightclub, his bleached blond hair and white mesh top sparkling in the strobe lights. Later, when a man he meets via a dating app makes a racist comment, an unruffled Parvis puts him in his place - "I'm not into man-child krauts" - and walks out.But Parvis' self-assured sense of belonging is unsettled when he's assigned community service at a refugee detention center, and he befriends a pair of newly arrived asylum-seekers from Iran, Amon (Eidin Jalali) and his sister Bana (Banafshe Hourmazdi). As Parvis and Amon begin to fall in love, and Bana is faced with deportation, Parvis reckons with all the ways in which he's similar yet different from his new companions, thanks to nothing but an accident of birth.Heartbreaking and heartwarming in equal measure, "No Hard Feelings" delivers profound insights with a buoyant pop sensibility. Shariat's characters may suffer precarity and prejudice, but the director doesn't deny them queer joy, capturing them in bright pastel colors, sun-kissed scenes of sensuality and music-video-style montages.An unsettling gothic tale about a Black maid and her white employer, Jenna Cato Bass' "Good Madam" exposes the ways in which South Africa's apartheid past continues to haunt its present. The aging Mavis (Nosipho Mtebe) has spent the bulk of her life as a live-in housekeeper for a lady named Diane, while Mavis' daughter, Tsidi (Chumisa Cosa), was raised by her grandmother in poverty. As the film opens, Tsidi has been driven out of her family home after the death of her grandmother, and she arrives at Diane's abode with her young daughter in tow.An air of uncanny pervades the house right from the outset. There's a dead dog that seems to have come back to life, and the colonial artifacts on the walls exude malevolence. Then there's Mavis' excessively obsequious behavior toward the bedridden Diane, an unseen presence who is hidden away behind closed doors. Is Mavis' servitude, which Tsidi finds ridiculous and outdated, the result of some evil spell or just of decades of racist indoctrination? Re-imagining racism itself as a kind of dark magic, "Good Madam" milks plenty of chills out of this central mystery, turning the sounds of Mavis' scrubbing and cleaning into terrifying refrains.A coming-of-age drama about a tough kid from a rough neighborhood, "The City of Wild Beasts" is devoid of both the sensationalism and the sentimentalism that usually afflict the "slumdog" genre. Instead, a rare tenderness courses through Henry E. Rinc贸n's feature, which centers on Tato (Bryan C贸rdoba), a delinquent 17-year-old in Medell铆n, Colombia.When Tato's mother dies, he's left to fend for himself in the city's hard-knock streets. Struggling to scrounge up money while avoiding the wrath of local gangs, our hero leaves town to seek refuge with a grandfather he's never met. Curmudgeonly at first, the old man, Octavio (脫scar Atehort煤a), a flower farmer in the countryside, eventually takes Tato under his wing, and the two form a close, taciturn bond. They work the land together and gaze out at the horizon, and at the end of the day, Octavio gives Tato a wad of cash and a precious life lesson: "Work is sacred."This moving portrait of intergenerational male affection grounds the film even as Tato returns to Medell铆n, and the plot takes some tragic turns. Rinc贸n never loses sight of his protagonist's hunger for love and beauty, which persists despite - or perhaps because of - a milieu in which both are hard-won.
"Goethe Medal Winners 2022: Indians Nimi Ravindran And Shiva Pathak Among The Honourees Art Culture dwnews-DW News

Every year, the Goethe Medal honors personalities from around the world who have made a special contribution to international cultural exchange or the teaching of the German language. This year, the award goes to Mohamed Abla, a multimedia artist from Egypt; Tali Nates, a historian from South Africa; as well as artists Nimi Ravindran and Shiva Pathak from India.

Focus on equality, diversity and sexuality

The Sandbox Collective sees itself as a free platform for artists and students from all cultural fields, including visual arts, literature, music and design. It was founded in 2013 by the author and theatre director Nimi Ravindran and the actress and cultural manager Shiva Pathak, who work with artists and arts organisations worldwide.

Their focus is on gender justice, equality, and sexuality. They curate, produce and organize performances and festivals. In cooperation with the Goethe-institut Bangalore, the collective creates free spaces for art, activism, debate and dialogue with the goal of creating culturally vibrant communities.

Art scene's social responsibility

Mohamed Abla is convinced that artists have a social responsibility and that their lives cannot be separated from their work.

For decades, the versatile multimedia artist has been committed to understanding and diversity, especially in the Egyptian cultural scene, and has been an advocate for freedom of expression. The 69-year-old is one of Egypt's few internationally known artists and manages to build cultural bridges through the medium of art.

Beyond his own award-winning work, he opened in 2009 a caricature museum Cairo, the first of its kind in the Middle East and North Africa. After the 2011 revolution, Abla was also elected to the Committee of 50 that wrote Egypt's new constitution

A place of lessons for humanity

Tali Nates was born in Israel in 1961, the child of Holocaust survivors rescued by Oskar Schindler. She has been living in South Africa since 1985. In 2008, she founded the Johannesburg Holocaust & Genocide Centre, which explores the history of genocide using case studies from the Holocaust as well as the 1994 genocide in Rwanda.

Tali Nates contrasts memories of the Holocaust with those of the genocide in Rwanda, examining the roots of both events and asking what we can learn from them with regard to current wars and human rights issues.

For artistic freedom

""In many parts of the world, people working in the cultural field and active in civil society are under massive pressure; this is currently demonstrated in a particularly shocking way by Russia's brutal war of aggression on Ukraine,"" said Goethe-institut President Carola Lentz, adding that the Goethe-instituts around the world ""stand up for human rights, freedom of expression, cultural diversity and understanding.""

The Goethe Medal is Germany's most important foreign cultural policy award. The Goethe-instituts abroad nominate the candidates based on their significance in cultural politics and their outstanding artistic work; the prize-winners are selected by a jury of experts.

The Goethe Medal is awarded at a ceremony in Weimar on August 28, the birthday of Johann Wolfgang von Goethe. The award winners are set to present their work at the Kunstfest Weimar art festival from August 26 to 28.

This article was originally written in German.

Source: DW"
"The 鈥楲ong Night of LiteratureS鈥?has returned to Delhi, threading together diverse literary cultures of Europe in a unique 鈥渟peed-dating鈥?format.

Organised by a number of European cultural institutes as a collaborative project, the 鈥楲ong Night of LiteratureS鈥?will be held at Instituto Cervantes here on September 23 with the participation of authors and literary figures from as many as 11 European nations.

Authors from Finland, Austria, France, Germany, Hungary, Portugal, Switzerland, and Spain among other nations, will be participating in the current edition, the organisers announced in a statement.

The Long Night of LiteratureS is back. Save the date and stay tuned to know more about this event where authors from across Europe will be reading to and interacting directly with audiences!

#longnightofliteratures2022 #LNLs2022 #Delhi @EU_in_India pic.twitter.com/n1Paap0ADA 鈥?Goethe-institut / Max Mueller Bhavan New Delhi (@GI_MMB_Delhi) August 25, 2022

The literary night was last organised in physical form in 2019. It was held online last year.

鈥淲e are very happy that the 鈥楲ong Night of LiteratureS鈥?will take place as a face-to-face event this year. It creates a unique atmosphere when authors from so many different countries come together on one evening and read from their works and engage in conversation with readers.

Buy Now | Our best subscription plan now has a special price

鈥淭he format allows for a close exchange and many conversations and discussions. In 2021, the Long Night took place online, which was also very successful. However, talking directly to the authors offers another experience for the audience,鈥?Anja Riedeberger, director information services South Asia, Goethe-institut told PTI.

During the event each author will be reading their work to a small rotating group of people 鈥?all in their native languages.

Advertisement

The evening will see participation of Antti Tuomainen (Finland), Robert Prosser (Austria), Martine Le Coz (France), Krisha Kops (Germany), Peter Szucs (Hungary), Dora Nunes Gago (Portugal), Mercedes Cebri谩n (Spain), Max Lobe (Switzerland) and others.

Also Read | New book tells story of India through its languages

Along with the above authors, Estonia will also showcase their literature, read by prominent translators Rustam Singh and Teji Grover Portra.

Czech Republic will also present local specialists reading works by the late author V谩clav Havel. An exhibition presenting James Joyce鈥檚 Ulysses will also be held by Ireland at the venue.

Advertisement

馃摚 For more lifestyle news, follow us on Instagram | Twitter | Facebook and don鈥檛 miss out on the latest updates!"
"Max Mueller

.

.

Krishna Shastri Devulapalli

Nikhila Kesavan

a literary sensation

Ranga Shankara

Attend the book reading of 鈥淜atzenberge鈥?by the award-winning author Sabrina Janesch from Germany at the Goethe-institut /Bhavan Bangalore on Sunday. Sabrina Janesch, born in Gifhorn in 1985, lives with her family in M眉nster and spent her childhood between Germany and Poland. She received numerous grants and awards for her novels, for e.g., the Mara Cassens Award (2010), the Anna Seghers Award (2011) and the Annette-von-Droste-H眉lshoff Award in 2017. Sabrina Janesch鈥檚 novels have received excellent reviews in international and national newspapers, she is a Spiegel bestselling author and winner of the renowned Annette-von-Droste-H眉lshoff Award. Where: Goethe-institut / Max Mueller BhavanCheck out SOCIAL鈥檚 House of Horror at Indiranagar SOCIAL. This is a Halloween-special two-room party. Room 1 will have Rishi Sippy, G.S.T, Skye, and They鈥檝e while Room 2 will have Chaz, Delika & Klenxch. Genres include House and Techno.The Madras Players and Chennai Art Theatre present 鈥淒ear Omana: Notes On how to be a Literary Sensation鈥? It鈥檚 a play by, adapted and directed by. Dear Omana unfolds as letters exchanged between a struggling writer, Krishna Shastri Devulapalli, and a bestselling author, Omana Banerjee. A tale of passion, revenge and sales returns, Dear Omana is for anyone who ever wanted notes on how to be. Where:"
"The 10th edition of the annual Reel Desires: Chennai International Queer Film Festival will commence on Friday and end on Sunday.

The festival is organised by NGOs including Orinam and Goethe-institut Chennai in collaboration with the Nirangal Charitable Trust and the NGO Saathii.

According to the organisers, the festival features films, short films and documentaries showcasing sexual and gender diversity. As many as 22 films from eight countries have been selected this year.

Read also | Balaji idol stolen from Karnataka seized in Tamil Nadu

The short films include Pride (India) by Arun Siddharth, Stars and Freckles (Argentina) by Constanza Garcia, Fado Menor (Portugal) by Salvador Alejandro Gutierrez, Fake (France, 2020) by Alexandre de Villeneuve and An Alarippu (India) by Talin Subbaraya.

The festival will also showcase two feature-length documentaries including Zuhur鈥檚 Daughters, a 2021 German documentary by Laurentia Genske and Robin Humboldt. The film chronicles four deeply complex and life-changing years in the lives of the siblings Lohan and Samar, two young transgender women who fled Syria with their family and are now leading very different lives in Germany.

On Saturday, the event will have the India premiere of Blooming on the Asphalt, a 2022 Brazilian documentary by Coraci Ruiz. The film follows the journey of the teenage transgender boy Jack. There will be a panel discussion on the same day on the need for shelter and housing for LGBTIQA+ people. Activists, NGO members and community members will participate in the discussion.

On Sunday, Chennai-based filmmaker and faculty member Mani Shankar Iyer鈥檚 Valentine@3 will be screened. The film is an anthology of the stories of three gay men in different stages of their journeys through life and love.

Advertisement

The Goethe-institut is free and open to individuals above 18 years. On Friday, the event will start at 6pm and end at 9pm. On Saturday it will be held between 3pm and 7.30pm, and on Sunday the timing is from 3pm to 9pm."
"Goethe-institut Max Mueller Bhavan, Pune in collaboration with the Zapurza Museum of Arts & Culture is set to organise the 鈥楥ritical Zones鈥?exhibition in the city on December 10 and 11. The organisers said the exhibition will explore new modes of coexistence among all forms of life.

All the programmes will be held at Zapurza and are free of cost for participants. Only the entry fee of Zapurza Museum of Art and Culture is payable.

A body movement workshop by Somya Kautia and Gia called 鈥業nner Scapes鈥?will be organised as part of the event. 鈥淭he workshop will help you explore ways of embodiment and inhabiting ourselves through sensation, touch, gravity and movement. A collective collaboration of humans and trees, language and poetry, movement and histories, this workshop offers a unique opportunity to explore these connections. All those who have curiosity for performance and movement can participate,鈥?the organisers said. Only 18 persons can be accommodated for this workshop.

Films will also be screened on the environment and climate-related subjects.

As part of the programme, Namita Waikar from the People鈥檚 Archive of Rural India will deliver a talk on traditional songs sung by rural women in stone grind mills. The organisers said women touch upon a range of issues, including patriarchy, caste, poet-saints, historical events, and much more through these songs. The session will also have photographs, and videos, among others."
"Medical student robbed, stripped and assaulted in Baramati; 3 held

A 21-year-old medical student in Pune district鈥檚 Baramati town was allegedly robbed, assaulted and stripped by three youths, who also took his nude photos and threatened to make them public, the police said on Wednesday, adding that the accused were arrested within hours of the FIR being lodged.

The incident took place between 7.30 pm and 8.30 pm on December 4 near Baramati Medical College and General Hospital, which is located near the industrial area of Baramati town, 110 km from Pune city.

According to the first information report lodged at the Baramati Taluka police station, the second-year medical student said that on Sunday night, he was walking back to his hostel after shopping at a local mall when he was intercepted by a man on a bike at a secluded location near the hospital鈥檚 oxygen generation plant. The man allegedly threatened to harm the student and stole Rs 15,000 from his pocket. Moments later, the FIR says, two more people arrived at the spot on a bike. Read more"
"From enjoying foreign-language films and plays, to exploring science and gender, here鈥檚 a look at some of the interesting events happening in Bengaluru this week.

Film festival

The Japan Film and Music Festival鈥檚 finale will take place this weekend. The festival will feature recorded concerts by rock band RADWIMPS, followed by screenings of animated movies by animator and filmmaker Makoto Shinkai.

Venue: PVR Orion Mall, Bangalore

Date: December 9-11, 2022, i.e. Friday, Saturday and Sunday

Tickets on PVR Cinemas / BookMyShow

Play

Ranga Shankara theatre in JP Nagar is presenting 鈥楽eetaapaharana鈥? a special Yakshagana performance in Kannada on the abduction of Sita. The event starts at 7.30 pm and is priced at Rs. 250 per head. The duration of the event is 90 minutes.

Venue: Ranga Shankara, JP Nagar

Date: Dec. 11 at 7.20 pm.

Bethany High is producing a musical titled 鈥楾he School of Rock鈥? the proceeds of which will go towards the funding of the Bethany Special School and related functions.

Venue: The St. Johns Auditorium, Koramangala

Date: Dec. 15,16,17 at 6.45 pm

More details on BookMyshow.

Dance show

The Natya Institute of Kathak and Choreography and STEM Dance Kampni are presenting their annual student showcase titled 鈥楳aya Arpan 2022鈥? The event will be held at ADA Rangamandira in Kalasipalya on Dec. 10, Saturday.

Art Festival

The Sandbox Collective and the Goethe-institut / Max Mueller Bhavan, along with the Bangalore International Center is hosting the 鈥楪ender Bender 2022鈥?event from Dec. 9 (Friday) to Dec. 11 (Sunday). The event, described as a multi-disciplinary arts festival celebrating all things gender, is free for all.

Venue: Bangalore International Centre, Domlur

More details here.

Science show

An event titled 鈥楨xcavating the Human Molecular Past鈥? hosting Maanasa Raghavan, an Assistant Professor at the University of Chicago and Uma Ramakrishnan, a Conservation Geneticist and Associate Professor at the National Center For Biological Sciences in Bengaluru will be held on Dec. 13. The event is free for all.

Advertisement

鈥淚n this lecture, we will cover the history of the field of paleogenetics as it pertains to the study of our species and discuss key insights that the field has generated over time. We will also have on displace replicas of skulls from human ancestors, including Autralopithecus, Neanderthals and others,鈥?says the event description.

Venue: Bangalore International Centre, Domlur

Date: Dec. 13 (Tuesday) from 6.30 pm to 8 pm"
"A chunk of rural women highlights their issues and feelings through age-old tradition of grindmill songs, which are a reflection of the society, People鈥檚 Archive of Rural India (PARI) co-founder Namita Waikar said on Sunday, adding more research on such songs will help people understand their issues.

Speaking at the 鈥淐ritical Zones鈥?exhibition organised by Goethe-institut Max Mueller Bhavan at Zapurza Museum of Arts and Culture, Waikar said the grindmill songs highlight different issues such as patriarchy, caste, village deities, marriage ceremonies and friendships.

鈥淚nitially, the women were reluctant to speak on their issues鈥?We found out that the women expressed themselves through grindmill songs. This is, thus, an age-old tradition and an important platform where women express their opinions on a range of topics. More research on such songs will help in understanding the issues faced by rural women,鈥?said Waikar.

For about 25 years since 1987, two social scientists 鈥?Late Hema Rairikar and Guy Poitevin 鈥?and their team collected over 1,10,000 grindmill songs that rural women sang as they worked every day at the stone mill.

This substantial 鈥渏atyavarchiovi鈥?collection is now being published on PARI along with the stories of women who sing them under the Grindmill Songs Project (GSP). Of these, 73,000 songs have been translated into English, while a number of songs were even translated in French.

Waikar also spoke about climate change and asserted that some couplets talk about nature, rains, weather and narrate how climate change has affected rural lives.

Jitrendra Maid, who is also working on the grindmill song project, said such songs are even useful for policy makers to understand social structure.

鈥淭he women expressed their values through grindmill songs. They also voice opinions on national issues. These songs will also help in understanding social structure, which can be useful to the policy makers while framing policies,鈥?said Maid.

The programme was moderated by Renu Jamgaonkar."
"鈥楻etelling鈥? a multimedia group exhibition inspired by the artists鈥?unique experiences and interrogation of life in Goa, opens on February 10 at Sunaparanta-Goa Centre for the Arts, Altinho. NT BUZZ gets a peek

CHRISTINE MACHADO | NT BUZZ

Ever since its founding, the team behind Goa Open Arts has been actively involved in galvanising the art talent in Goa and also organised the Goa Open Arts Festival in 2020.

鈥淗owever, because of the pandemic we realised that we couldn鈥檛 do the festival this year and so we gave out grants to six artists to support a project that they were already working on or had an idea to work on,鈥?says artist Gopika Chowfla, who is part of the organising team.

This Goa Open Arts Catalyst Grant was initiated in May 2020, where an open call was put out inviting proposals from artists. The winners of these grants were then announced in August. The artists selected were Afrah Shafiq, Asavari Gurav, Bhisaji Gadekar, Poonam Pandit, Nandita Kumar, and three-piece artist collective Komas.

And now the artists are all ready to showcase their completed projects at the art show 鈥楻etelling鈥? which opens on February 10 at Sunaparanta-Goa Centre for the Arts, Altinho.

鈥淭his is not a curated show. The artists were allowed total freedom, but what we observed is that the artists here are very interested in issues pertaining to Goa be it cultural, music or environmental and this comes out in their work. It is an unusual thing because we don鈥檛 find this in Delhi or Mumbai where a lot of work is far more general. And this is characteristic not only of people native to Goa but also those who have moved here from other parts of the country,鈥?says Chowfla.

Afrah Shafiq is one such artist who moved to the state about three years ago and soon became interested in the many different titles given to Mother Mary here. This translated into a whole project in itself on Marian worship which she completed two months ago. However in the process of researching for this she came across the links between Mother Mary and Shantadurga, who incidentally are both referred to as 鈥楽aibinn鈥? She also read the writings of anthropologist Robert Newman who has written extensively on Shantadurga of Cuncolim, Fatorpa, and found interesting parallels. 鈥淏oth Mother Mary and Shantadurga are treated with equal reverence and this is striking because it is not common in other parts of the country, and I think it is a beautiful approach given Goa鈥檚 uncomfortable history of forced conversions and the Inquisition,鈥?she says.

For her art installation where she dwells on this synthesis of religions, Shafiq has used the grinding stone as a symbol. The idea to use the grinding stone, she says, first came about when she observed these being sold at the Mapusa feast fair. However, the idea gained more traction when she read Heta Pandit鈥檚 book 鈥楪rinding Stories鈥? which is a collection of folk songs or 鈥榦viyo鈥?that were sung by women while they were using the grinding stone. Thus, the grinding stone in a way is a witness of time, a confidant of sorts.

And this made her think of Mother Mary and Shantadurga as young women themselves and at the grinding stone. 鈥淚 began wondering what would they say if they had a song. Everyone is always dreaming about them but has anyone asked them what are their dreams?鈥?she says.

Komas, a three-piece band/artist collective which includes Enit Maria, Minam Apang and Srinivas Mangipudi, has created a sound/music/visual composition 鈥楳ollem Resonance鈥?inspired by the Mollem National Park, its forest and wildlife. 鈥淏eing inspired as artistes as well as citizens responding to the fast-track forest clearances during the pandemic lockdown, we wanted to propose this project to bring to life a sound/music-based composition with the forest as a living entity, harmonising with us,鈥?they say, adding that they believe that it is very important for all of us to protect Mollem National Park, which is a natural heritage of Goa. 鈥淓veryday the forest gives us so much, the oxygen, the clean air, healthy biodiversity for agriculture, gardens and on and on, what do we give it back? We need to start listening more closely to the natural world because we are very much part of it as it is a part of us,鈥?they say.

Asavari Gurav meanwhile explores Goan folk tales using various media. 鈥淭hese are motifs in a theatrical dream-like space, mostly gouache, water colour and acrylic paintings. I referred to Jayanti Naik鈥檚 writings on folk tales of Goa and derived my own interpretations and played with the stories in the modern, urban context. I wanted the space to give a sense of watching a play,鈥?she says, adding that some of her personal favourite folk tales growing up were 鈥楰undekuskut鈥? 鈥榦k Kolho鈥?and 鈥楻aajputra ani kuli鈥?

Bhisaji Gadekar鈥檚 project 鈥楽econd Skin II鈥?explores the changing face of Goan craftsmanship in the face of modernity and technology. He worked with bamboo craftsmen to create garments out of bamboo.

鈥淏oth my parents come from a tailoring background and while traditionally the next generation continues in the same occupation line, this has not been the case with me. However, I wanted to see how as an artist I could use those same skills in my art,鈥?he explains. Further, he says, he chose to focus on bamboo because this bamboo making community is slowly fading out as the younger generation does not want to continue in this line owing to a number of reasons. 鈥淪o I also wanted to make a statement that this is not a low class practice and I wanted to push them to take it to the next level,鈥?he says.

Nandita Kumar鈥檚 installation 鈥楩rom Paradigm To Paradigm, Into The Biomic Time鈥?is representational of a newspaper-press going in a constant loop that comments on the constant regurgitation of misinformed and manipulative facts by individuals who have the ability to influence public opinion to protect their own interests. 鈥淭his new media work deconstructs political statements related to varied environmental issues by collating statements made by influential individuals, media, politicians; that were then put through a code generating Haiku poems, which will form the basis of creating a chance composition generating music through a punch piano,鈥?she says. A book placed next to the installation will allow the viewer to connect the different Haiku generated and understand the functioning of the ecosystem and its

misinterpretations.

Weaver and textile artist, Poonam Pandit鈥檚 piece draws upon the cultural, social and environmental narratives of fibre to create a series of tactile women compositions. 鈥淚 look at the progression of fibres from the past to the present and the work is based on my experiences of working with Goa weavers,鈥?she says.

Apart from the exhibition, the month-long show will also include workshops conducted by the artists, storytelling sessions

and talks.

鈥楻etellings鈥?opens on February 10, from 10 a.m. till 6:30 p.m. at Sunaparanta-Goa Centre for the Arts, Altinho. The exhibition is in partnership with Goa Open Arts and the Goethe-institut (Max Mueller Bhavan

Mumbai)"
"A festival of gender and other cool things to do this weekend Catch interesting multimedia projects at Gender Bender 2021, watch a musical on the oral traditions of Punjab and get some Christmas shopping done /how-to-lounge/art-culture/a-festival-of-gender-and-other-cool-things-to-do-this-weekend-111639124363498.html 111639124363498 story

Gender Bender 2021

Gender Bender is a one-of-its-kind festival in India that is dedicated to the exploration of gender through art. Conceived and conceptualised by Bengaluru-based theatre group the Sandbox Collective, it is a joint venture with the Goethe-institut / Max Mueller Bhavan, Bangalore. Created to contribute and further the gender discourse through art, this is the seventh edition of the festival. This year, the festival is a digital manifestation of the physical festival 鈥?an interactive online space for audiences to engage with, say the organisers.

The Gender Bender grant is awarded to individuals /groups who are selected by an independent jury of artists and scholars from across India. Some of this year鈥檚 grantees are playwright Sharanya Ramprakash, who has created a hashtag 鈥?Malashreechallenge鈥?hoping to create a trans feminist icon by claiming the gender-bending screen image of Kannada filmstar Malashree; artist Adil Kalim, who uses the derogatory words used by cishet people while referring to queer folk as a basis of his book covers; Mitra, Shraddha and Yash who explore the idea of a dating app that hopes to navigate caste in the world of dating apps; Vastavikta, whose quest is to find alternatives to the 鈥榠deal home鈥?founded on friendships and solidarities rather than the norms of conventional families; and Johnson Rajkumar鈥檚 film on the Nupi Manbi, the indigenous transgender women of Manipur.

For more: www.sandboxcollective.space

The oral traditions of Punjab

A first-of-its-kind musical on the intangible oral traditions of Punjab comes to Royal Opera House, Mumbai this December. Conceptualized by kathan exponent Manjari Chaturvedi, O鈥?Jugni Punjab Di is a theatrical dance production which revives the rich heritage and mystical Sufi traditions of Punjab. This multidisciplinary performance will consist of live dance, musical and storytelling elements and will feature qawwal Ustad Ranjhan Ali and actors Balkar Sidhu and Jasvir Kumar.

The show will throw a spotlight on the tradition of jugni (in Punjabi Sufi poetry, the term loosely means 鈥榯he spirit of life鈥?, and will also bring the poetry of Sufi greats like Sultan Bahu, Baba Bulleh Shah, Waris Shah into the fold.

Where: At the Royal Opera House, Mama Parmanand Marg, Mumbai, 18 December 2021. Tickets on insider.in

It's beginning to look a lot like Christmas

Savor magical Christmas treats and special Holiday High Tea delights at the JW Marriott Mumbai Juhu's Bombay Baking Company, the popular patisserie-deli at the JW Marriott Mumbai Juhu. Treat your taste buds to the flavors of the festive season with an assortment of delicacies such as Chocolate Ginger Bread House, Plum Cake, German Stollen, Dundee Cake, Raspberry Brulee Cake, Strawberry Yoghurt Yule Log, Chocolate Santa Shoes, Hazelnut Fudge Pastry, Mince Pie, Caramel Chocolate Cake ,Orange Honey Mini Gateaux, Christmas-themed Cupcakes, Assorted Christmas Cookies such as Almond Speculoos, Cinnamon Star Ginger Bread Cookies and more.

Where: At the JW Marriott Juhu, Mumbai.

An Elegy for Ecology

鈥楧zukou Valley in the Kitchen鈥?(Shrine Empire)

An Elegy for Ecology by artist Sharbendu De explores the human-nature relationship and its centrality to the contemporary ecological discourse. The histories of treating the planet as 鈥渃apital鈥?has culminated in new emergent emergencies, as Covid -19, climate change, sixth extinction, air pollution, the artist believes. Post these crises, the human species may biologically survive, but its emergent psychological and physical embodiments may leave it transformed into another 鈥榖eing.鈥?It is in the interstices of possible potential futures of the human condition that Sharbendu De locates his practice in. The 鈥榮olastalgia鈥?these current works allude to 鈥?""the homesickness you have when you are still at home,"" is not a state of faraway places, distant times or sci-fi alienations 鈥?it is present in almost immediate and relatable spaces, as environmental conditions deteriorate. They act to jolt one out of complacent denials.

Where: On view till 19 January 2022 at Shrine Empire Gallery, Defence Colony, New Delhi. For more, go to shrineempiregallery.com."
"NT BUZZ

Goa Open Arts has revealed the six artist recipients of the inaugural Catalyst Grants. Announced at the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic amidst the rapid closure of art museums, galleries, universities and other spaces of artistic display and production, the Catalyst Grants were initiated with the intention of providing ongoing support to the artistic community of Goa via bursaries of `30,000 for art production.

The Catalyst Grants will support five artists under the general category, and an additional sixth artist is supported in the New Media Arts category, in partnership with the Goethe-institut / Max Mueller Bhavan Mumbai. In addition to the monetary support and access to mentorship opportunities, the six grantees will have their work exhibited at the next Goa Open Arts public programme scheduled to take place in February 2020.

The artists selected for the grant include new media artist Afrah Shafiq whose project will explore the twin narratives of Mother Mary and Shantadurga; painter and printmaker Asavari Gurav who proposes to explore Goan folktales using various media including watercolour, GIF animation and book-based art; performance maker and sculptor Bhisaji Gadekar, who鈥檚 project 鈥楽econd Skin II鈥?will explore the changing face of Goan craftsmanship in the face of modernity and technology.

Weaver and textile artist Poonam Pandit of Kalakar Weaves who will draw upon the cultural, social and environmental narratives of fibre to create a series of tactile women compositions.

The sixth recipient is Komas, a three-piece band/artist collective (which includes Enit Maria, Minam Apang and Srinivas Mangipudi), who will be responding as artistes as well as citizens to the fast-track forest clearances in Goa, to bring to life a sound/music/visual composition 鈥楳ollem Resonance鈥?with the forest of Mollem as a living entity.

The Catalyst New Media Grant in collaboration with Goethe-institut/ Max Mueller Bhavan Mumbai has been awarded to Nandita Kumar. Kumar proposes to create a generative new media work based on deconstructing political statements related to varied environmental issues from the data gathered from across the globe.

In addition to receiving the grant, Kumar will also be invited to participate in the Goethe-institut / Max Mueller Bhavan Mumbai鈥檚 series of interdisciplinary, co-working labs focusing on arts and technology, to be organised in Mumbai in 2020-2021.

Goa Open Arts is a group of creative professionals living in Goa. The aim of the Goa Open Arts festival is to galvanise the creative talent pool that resides in Goa. In addition to the significant native population of Goa鈥檚 artists, makers and performers, a large number of designers, writers, artists, musicians, chefs, etc have come from all over the country and the world to make Goa their home. The festival is a platform where all can come together and create

something new.

While the festival is planned to be a recurring annual event, Open Arts Initiative is a permanent entity that intends to engage with Goa鈥檚 creative community throughout the year.

This may be in the form of workshops, residencies, mentoring events, school interactions and plenty more."
"In the port of Beirut on August 4, 2020, 2,700 tons of ammonium nitrate stored in a warehouse ignited, causing a massive explosion. The resulting shock wave destroyed the houses and apartments of an estimated 300,000 people, killing at least 190 individuals and injuring thousands, according to government figures.

But the people of Lebanon are not only suffering from the consequences of the explosion and resulting fires in the city; the country has been plagued by economic troubles and turmoil in its government. Shortly before the blast, Beirut citizens had been taking to the streets to protest the regime.

In recent months, the coronavirus pandemic has also taken its toll. Many in Lebanon feel it may be time to move away from their country altogether.

Yet, Mounir Mahmalat from Germany plans to stay. He鈥檚 called the Lebanese capital home for the last four years and has never tired of it. A cellist in the band Stories 鈥?Bridging Traditions, Mahmalat told DW about what it鈥檚 like to live in Beirut now and how the cultural sector is doing three months after the devastating blast.

DW: Mr. Mahmalat, how did you experience the day of the explosion in Beirut almost three months ago? Were you in the city that day?

Mounir Mahmalat: Yeah, so the interesting part of this disaster is that everybody, literally everybody in the country has his or her own narrative about the situation and what happened, because it was such an incredibly intense moment. Everybody knows exactly what happened to her or him in this specific moment, even though one might not even have been in the city itself. Many conversations now start with: 鈥淲here have you been during the blast? I hope nothing happened!鈥?This has shaped social interactions in many ways.

I was in Beirut. But I was lucky given the circumstances. My apartment was heavily damaged, but luckily, I wasn鈥檛 at home. I was in a part of the city that was a little bit farther away of the explosion site. As many of us got small injuries, I got some, but nothing compared to what others have had to endure during that day.

Initially, everybody thought that this particular blast was something that occurred in their immediate vicinity. So I only realised like an hour or two later that it was something of this unimaginable magnitude, after I went home and after I was able to catch up on some messages and confirm some of the rumors that spread over social media and in the news.

There was fear in the time immediately afterward that it may have been terrorist attacks, maybe by Israel or of something of a larger magnitude that happened that wasn鈥檛 immediately visible. That an accident like that could have happened occurred to many of us just a couple of hours later.

I can only imagine what an impact such a blast can have on someone. May I ask how you are living and working today?

Just as a side story, a few weeks after the blast there was another big fire at the port, a very scary one with a huge black trail of smoke that drew a lot of attention. And it really elicited the trauma in a lot of younger people 鈥?and kids in particular. And I think the effect on the population鈥檚 social psyche is something that needs to be studied and understood in more detail.

So how do I live? I am a musician and at the same time, I鈥檓 lucky enough to have different means of employment. I鈥檓 also an economist and I work for different think tanks and development organisations, including the World Bank. So luckily these days I don鈥檛 have to rely on my musical profession to earn my living.

The explosion in Beirut happened almost three months ago. With the pandemic situation also occurring, how is cultural life at the moment?

So, this explosion really devastated the part of Beirut with most cultural sites. In the vicinity of the port, you had a large concentration of museums, theaters, music halls, heritage buildings, pubs, bars, restaurants 鈥?it was really the bustling heart of the city; a large part of what made Beirut famous and attracted so many people from all over the world. Now, only a handful of these venues remain open or could reopen.

And when you now pass by the affected areas at night you see a ghost town. Before it was a bustling skyline and now there is just no light. But it is not only the physical damage that impacts cultural life. It has also had a huge impact on social psyche. Having such a large part of the country鈥檚 cultural heritage damaged weighs heavily on people鈥檚 minds after the current crippling financial and economic crisis has greatly affected economic opportunities for many Lebanese people. On top of that, Lebanon experienced a large number of coronavirus cases.

Since the blast affected thousands of people, the hospitals were completely overburdened. There was absolutely no way to think of social distancing or wearing masks while trying to save your neighbor鈥檚 life. In that way, the explosion caused a massive increase in coronavirus cases that has led to two new lockdowns now. The impact on cultural life is severe and will probably occupy the country for the months to come.

Places where you would meet and come together and listen to music or play also got damaged. How is it today, almost three months afterwards? Can you go on the stage again?

There are concerts happening now on the very few stages that remain open, and that are open air. Yet, cultural life is not even close to what it was before, what it could be even during pandemic times. I, myself, was able to play one concert two weeks ago, which was where you really could feel that people grieved for moments in which they could share emotional connections.

In a society as fragmented as Lebanon鈥檚, music offers important opportunities to create common narratives that remind people of a common heritage. And in these times, without these cultural gatherings and within a deep crisis, society is thrown back on different forms of identification, which in the Lebanese case is often religion. I believe that much more focus would have to be devoted to the preservation of the absolutely fascinating cultural landscape here in the country in order to prevent the gradual disintegration of society.

What鈥檚 your wish in terms of awakening cultural life?

I would wish that music and culture take a central role in international efforts to support the Lebanese people in times that pose a historical challenge. This can come in many forms, such as by supporting musical events, festivals, dance shows, performing arts or exhibitions. The international community can help a lot in this domain since the Lebanese government has not done anything to support the arts scene 鈥?literally nothing. However, this is somewhat understandable given the magnitude of the financial crisis the state is in.

International partners have a very good reputation for nurture existing connections with artists, with musicians or filmmakers to produce cultural output in the country. The Goethe-institut, for example, has done a remarkable job in facilitating connections between Lebanese artists and artists from all over the world. I would hope that this can push the Lebanese society into a more positive mindset, something that allows people to relate back to what made them great in the past and can make them great in the future.

You mentioned that you are essentially on the payroll of think tanks and also working for the World Bank, but what about other musicians or artists, are they struggling financially?

For many musicians, these times are absolutely devastating. If there is no opportunity for musicians to perform, many are thrown back onto savings and family connections. If these are not available for whatever reason, the situation for many musicians quickly becomes very dire.

One has to see that even the concerts that you can play now introduce a super interesting set of challenges that are not easy to solve. Due to the decline of purchasing power that is coupled with a significant devaluation of the currency, you come into situations where the concerts of the best musicians in the country are priced at three or four euros, and many still think they鈥檙e too expensive! It鈥檚 very difficult for musicians to find the right course of action these days.

If you look three months ahead from now, how do you imagine the situation will be? Is there anything that gives hope?

In the immediate future 鈥?within the next couple of months 鈥?unfortunately, I think it鈥檚 going to be even more difficult than it is now. Open air places will have to close during much of the rainy season which again is going to reduce the opportunities for concerts that are outdoors. So unfortunately, it鈥檚 going to be a difficult winter for musicians and artists in the country.

This article originally appeared on Deustche Welle. Read it here.

Featured image credit: Reuters"
"15 projects that cast a fresh look at gender and art during the pandemic From a short film on a departed queer artist to imagery about the life of a single migrant woman in the city, the sixth edition of Gender Bender shows works of art around gender as a construct and a concept /relationships/it-s-complicated/15-projects-that-cast-a-fresh-look-on-gender-and-art-during-the-pandemic-111606993875503.html 111606993875503 story

When you look at Shrishti Chatterjee鈥檚 work of art, it feels like you have been allowed into a deeply personal space. In the visual, a laptop and a box of doughnuts are placed on a neat bed, with just a pillow askew. Nearby, a table is stacked with diaries, paper, a lamp, post-its and plants. This is clearly a space where work and pleasure exist together. Through such imagery, the Kolkata-based visual artist and researcher explores the elusive world of the 鈥榖achelor woman鈥? hoping to reframe the identity of the single migrant woman in the city. Chatterjee鈥檚 project is part of the sixth edition of Gender Bender, a joint project of the Goethe-institut / Max Mueller Bhavan and Sandbox Collective which showcases works of art around gender as a discourse, construct and a concept.

Yet another work, which can be viewed on the website is Madhuravanam (The Sweet Forest) by Kozhikode-based Gargi Harithakam. The short film takes a closer look at a queer friend, who is no longer alive. 鈥淎 friend who underwent the notorious 'conversion therapy' after coming out as a bisexual, a tragic episode in a short life. The film will celebrate her existence marked intensely with poetry and other arts,鈥?mentions the project note.

'Scavenging' is a nonfiction comic by C. G. Salamander, Chennai, and Samidha Gunjal, Ahmednagar. Among other things, it seeks to examine the gender and caste breakup of manual scavengers. Photo courtesy: Sandbox Collective

This year the organisers have taken an 鈥渋nformed decision鈥?not to convert the festival into an online one, as there is already a lot happening in that space. 鈥淲e wanted to allow for the artist to create the work in their own time. And we decided to share a work-in-progress online,鈥?explain Shiva Pathak and Nimi Ravindran, co-founders, Sandbox Collective. It is snatches of the various artistic processes that one will get to witness online this year. The artists will continue to work on the individual projects, with no 鈥減re-conditions of time鈥?or deadlines attached, and, perhaps, when better conditions prevail, these will be shown offline.

While the digital realm might have facilitated collaborations across geographies, both Pathak and Ravindran feel that the evolution of visual and performing arts, spanning hundreds of years, can not be replicated in a digital space overnight, or even in eight months. 鈥淚t鈥檚 going to take time to figure this beast out completely鈥?. In the meanwhile, we continue to miss and crave human exchanges that go beyond a computer screen and framed faces,鈥?they say.

'Waacking/Whacking' by Kolkata-based Sangram Mukhopadhyay. Photo courtesy: Sandbox Collective

One significant change in the sixth edition of the festival has been an increase in the number of grantees from 10 to 15. 鈥淚t has been a difficult year and we would like, more than anything, for artists to continue to work in safe environments, feel supported and continue to create if they feel like it,鈥?add Pathak and Ravindran.

The grantees have been shortlisted by a jury comprising writer-professor Vijeta Kumar, dancer and pedagogue Ranjana Dave, playwright and performer Irawati Karnik and transgender artist-activist Kalki Subramaniam. The selections were not just based on the proposed idea but also on the context of the proposals. 鈥淓mpathy and humanity have always been the ruling factor when it comes to any of our gender work...not necessarily only during the pandemic,鈥?elaborate Pathak and Ravindran.

Among the various ideas that have excited the jury is a project on the launda naach of Bihar. The series by Delhi-based Aamir Rabbani looks at how launda naach鈥檚 artistic heritage sets itself apart from generic band baaja. Another one is Resonxnce - Dissonxnce, a transatlantic musical conversation between two female musicians, Shruthi Veena Vishwanath in Pune and Sylvia Hinz in Berlin. This musical diary has been created in response to their lives during the pandemic, 鈥渁nd challenges notions of what musicality and melody is. Is melody musical, is dissonance music? Through a call-and-response everyday, the two artists will weave together the stories of their lives across continents in a sonic piece for the times,鈥?mentions the project note.

There is also a theatre piece by Bengaluru-based theatre director-actor and facilitator Rashmi Ravikumar, titled Amma makkalu ellinda bartave (Mommy where do babies come from?). It is about finding the vocabulary for difficult conversations on sex and desire in regional languages such as Kannada. 鈥淭here are several dance projects examining the body, narratives of pain, a film montage on the empathic male in Hindi cinema, a character from a Tamil classic called Jil Jil, and so much more. We're very excited to see how all these wonderful ideas will be fleshed out,鈥?say Pathak and Ravindran.

The sixth edition of Gender Bender can be viewed on www.sandboxcollective.org, 4 December onwards"
"Bangalore

Bengaluru

Rudraksha

Kumbh Mela

The Photojournalists鈥?Association of(PJAB) is organising its annual photo exhibition, titled Frozen Memories 2019. The four-day exhibition showcases each of the photojournalist鈥檚 images that tell a story, some beyond the proverbial 鈥榦ne thousand words鈥? Around 150 photographs, taken by photo journalists from various newspapers, agencies and magazines will be on display, covering subjects that range from politics and sports to lifestyle and features. 10.30am-5.30pm, at Karnataka Chitrakala Parishat, Kumar Krupa Road, August 29-September 1, entry freeHorizons is a selection of artworks seven artists from India and Vietnam. Artists like Madhavi Joshi, Sanjay Tikkal, Steven Gandhi, Bhaskar Rao Botcha, Ganesh Doddamani, Gourishankar Soni and Upasana Asrani鈥檚 work will be showcased. Mystical Trees, Diviyam, Frolic, Meditation, Freedom, Journeys, Monks, River Blue, Summer Trails, Red Tree by the House, The Awakening, Fishing Village and Morning are few paintings that are be part of the exhibition. The creative use of imagery and distinctions between different spheres of art collaborated with unique perspectives and interesting element are the interpretation of the collections that being showcased. All day, at Art @ L1, Floor L1, JW Marriott Hotel, ongoingDance Therapy is a 鈥榮cience鈥?to improve your total health and wellness with movement, and fast beats, quick steps, and a Latin flair are all the characteristics of salsa. While it makes for a fun night out with friends, it can also be a great way to get healthy and fit. And the best part of it is, the exercise doesn鈥檛 feel like exercise at all because you are having so much fun doing it. The class will be conducted by Minoti Ramachandra. At 6.30pm, Group Therapy 3rd Floor, above HDFC Bank, Miller鈥檚 Boulevard, Millers Rd, Vasanth Nagar, on August 29, entry `300, eventshigh.comScientific research has proved that ahas a unique vibration and energy. The fundamental reason why people on the spiritual path wore them is that it enhances and cleanses the aura, gives meditative focus and concentration and kept them in peak physical health. At this exhibition, browse through an entire range of 1-21 mukhi rudrakshas and even get expert guidance from panel experts on what and how to wear the Rudraksha. 10.30am-7.30pm, at Central Cottage Industries Emporium, MG Road, on till September 8Tonight is all about good Bollywood music, brought to you by DJ Hassan, and lots of dancing. And better still, the evening is for the ladies who will be indulged not only with great music, but a whole lot of treats to eat and drink.WHERE: Gillys Redefined 413, 100 Feet Rd, KHB Block Koramangala,WHEN: At 8.30pm, August 29,ENTRY: Free (for ladies)Capturing an intrinsic part of India鈥檚 intangible heritage 鈥?the鈥?Shibu Arakkal鈥檚 Mallaah is an exhibition of photographs. Arakkal captures the essence of the Kumbh in a new light with a series of portraits of the boatmen who ply their trade on the Ganga and the Yamuna. Mallaah 鈥?exclusively male ferriers of people 鈥?are a deeply compelling part of the Kumbh story. Almost as if they are born on these boats and just as possibly may breathe their last on it, the Mallaah men live lives removed from their families and children. The works use spontaneous compositions and lighting of the subjects, inspired by the work of some early 20th century pictorialists.WHERE: gallery g, 7th Cross, Lavelle Road WHEN: Till September 9Annelie Andre, a current bangaloREsident@Shoonya, concludes her residency with a double bill: 鈥楽HAK | WE鈥?and 鈥楳ETA (IN)fused鈥? As an artist, Annelie鈥檚 special interest focuses on the interdisciplinary relationship between dance, text, space and sound, as well as on the transformation of theatre and performance space into a complex place of experience. 鈥楽HAK | WE鈥?is the result of a collective working process during the 鈥淏angalore Power Project鈥? Meandering between seeking and finding, acting and reacting, building and deconstructing, it creates space for imagination to unfold. 鈥楳ETA (IN)fused鈥?is based on a solo performance that was shown in Berlin in June 2019. Initially dealing with transformation and constant change within an environment of organic and inorganic elements, it fuses with the experiences that Annelie made during the last few weeks in Bengaluru. How does the re-location of her solo change her voice, her movement, her emotional state? The new, (in) fused (short) version of the piece is an attempt to process, imagine, reflect and transform.Andre, born in Salzburg (A), graduated with an MA in choreography from HZT Berlin (Inter-University Center for Dance) in 2018 with her full-length piece 鈥淟aws of Power鈥? She has studied Contemporary Dance Education at the Music and Dance University of the city of Vienna, and worked as a performer and choreographer on collaborative projects as well as for solo works.Both the pieces have been written and choreographed by Annelie Andre, in close collaboration with performers Akhil Jamkhandi, Anindita Ghosh, Jean Fladberg Rose, Prashant More, Ronita Mookerji and Srinivas Prashant.WHERE: Goethe-institut / Max Mueller Bhavan, CHM Road, IndiranagarWHEN: 6.30pm, August 31 ENTRY: Free CALL: 22511300"
"Srimoyee Bhattacharya was terrified to see her reflection in the mirror. She screamed, broke open the sensors and left. Minutes earlier, when she had entered the dark cubicle at the Goethe-institut in Kolkata, she had no idea that she would be getting inside the body of a giant insect or be teleported to 1915 Prague through virtual reality (VR).

Her 13-year-old son giggles as she speaks about her experience as Gregor Samsa, one of Franz Kafka鈥檚 most celebrated characters from his short story, The Metamorphosis. The story starts with Samsa waking up in his room, transformed into an insect grappling with his new reality, much like Bhattacharya herself. 鈥淚 had read the story as a teenager and was excited to experience virtual reality, but transforming into a giant bug was something I could not have fathomed,"" she says, having found her bearings again.

This September, Kolkata had its first official brush with VR at the Goethe-institut, where American film-maker Mika Johnson installed his project VRWandlung /Metamorphosis VR, based on Kafka鈥檚 short story from 1915. The installation, which opened in January 2018 in Prague, is the brainchild of Johnson and producer Shahid Gulamali. It has toured 34 cities and is now passing through four cities in India.

The idea is to regenerate interest in Kafka鈥檚 text. Unlike other mediums, the immersion through VR becomes more relatable as one transforms into Samsa, who himself has transformed into an insect.

Johnson has used the medium for the first time and it comes with its challenges. 鈥淚n cinema, storytelling is done in the editing room鈥攍ighting, acting, costumes and camera angles come together to tell the story. But in VR your engagement creates the story arc. When you stand in front of the mirror in Samsa鈥檚 bedroom, you are at the centre of the drama. The way you navigate that is entirely up to you,"" he says.

Three teams worked separately for six months during the production, and techniques from classic Czech puppetry were used to design the project. Czech animators Ondrej Slavic and Vojt臎ch Kiss created a small-scale model of Samsa鈥檚 bedroom with over 400 objects made by hand; this was then photographed in 360 degrees at a studio. The room was reconstructed in 3D and each object was coloured based on the photographs. A second team concentrated on the body movements of the insect using robotic techniques based on tracking sensors. Finally, a team of actors worked on the narrative in Czech, German and English.

The Metamorphosis VR also has a fascinating embedded narrative. Johnson stumbled upon Kafka鈥檚 bedroom from 1912, and it was identical to the layout of Samsa鈥檚 room in the story. Johnson saw this as an opportunity to layer the experience with key biographical details from Kafka鈥檚 own life. For instance, one of the drawers features a photo of the author鈥檚 best friend, Max Brod, with a fictional letter from Kafka鈥檚 The Trial. The framed photograph on Samsa鈥檚 wall is based on Kafka鈥檚 own lovers. 鈥淚t鈥檚 kind of a shrine to him. The more you would know about him, the deeper you could go into the layers which we have hidden,"" says Johnson.

VRWandlung is funded by the Goethe-institut, Prague. It will be shown in Mumbai between 10-13 October and 18-21 October, and in Bengaluru in November.

Jennifer Kishan is a Kolkata-based writer and photographer."
"Ragini Dwivedi

UB City

Sandesh Kadur

Dooriyaan

Yusuf Arakkal

South India鈥檚 most-awaited wedding and jewellery exhibition will open in the city today, to be inaugurated by actress. Called VK Asia Wedding Fair 2019, you can find jewellery from the top brands such as Sri Ganesh Diamonds & Jewellery, Nikhaar Jewels, Ananya Jewels, Amrapali Jewels, Golden Jewells By Anand Shah, Riya Kodali, Dagina Jewellers and others. Besides the jewellery, sift through a range of couture, trousseau, accessories, makeup items and even a catalogue of wedding planners.WHERE: JW Marriott Hotel, nearWHEN: 10.30am-8pm, October 11-13Get ready for a night of pure 鈥楬indie rock鈥?bliss as Sharma and The Besharams from Mumbai will take centerstage at this venue. This Hindi, indie pop band comprises Vasuda Sharma of Chandu Ke Chacha and Tumse Hi Pyar fame, Rahul Hariharan, a self-taught drummer, who started his journey with heavy metal band Bhayanak Maut, multi-string instrumentalist Chaitanya Bhaidkar, who is currently a part of Ayushmann Khurrana鈥檚 band Ayushmann Bhava, and finally, Chirayu Vedekar, who also plays with veteran rock band Agnee.WHERE: Fandom, 1st floor of Gilly鈥檚 Redefined, #413, 100 Feet Road, 4th Block, KoramangalaWHEN: 8.30pm, October 11ENTRY: Free; cover charge applicableAishwarya Suresh, who finished as a semi-finalist on the second season of the hit TV show The Stage, will perform at this newly-launched pub. She likes to do covers of Chet Faker, Camila Cabello, Adele, Lana del Rey and artists across genres. On the work front, she is currently working on her first EP, which she plans to release by the year-end.WHERE: 1st Floor, Lido Mall, Swami Vivekananda Road, off MG Road, UlsoorWHEN: 9pm, October 11ENTRY: FreeAhead of the main event, Echoes of Earth music festival is organising a panel discussion about how collaborative efforts can help bring civic and environmental change. Panel members, Sunita Dhairyam, Rohan Chakravarty, Malaika Vaz and Arshiya Bose will talk about why the frog matters in our ecology, and how music and arts have a significant role to play in civic or environmental campaigns. Post the discussion, the floor will be thrown open for a Q&A with panellists and founder of the fest, Roshan Netalkar.WHERE: R Bar, Renaissance Hotel, Race Course Road WHEN: 5pm, October 11 ENTRY: `499, bookmyshow.comThis is no ordinary panel discussion. In collaboration with the India Week Hamburg 2019, Goethe-institut Max Mueller Bhavan will present a panel on the different perspectives and possibilities of Artificial Intelligence (AI), conceived and facilitated by German artist, performer and filmmaker Christoph Faulhaber. Participants, originating from the field of AI-driven software production, will present their vision, and AI-designed products and perspective on 鈥榃hat istheir potential and innovative power?鈥橶HERE: 16, Chinmaya Mission Hospital Road, First Stage, Defence Colony, IndiranagarWHEN: 6.30pm, October 11 ENTRY: FreeIn today鈥檚 edition of the ongoing 鈥楯apanese Movie Month鈥? watch two films back to back. The first one is called Thermae Romae, about an architect of spa baths for the Roman Empire, who inadvertently travels through time and finds himself in a modern Japanese bathhouse. The next film will be Mameshiba, the story ofa middle-aged unemployed male who has never stepped out of his town and who runs into Ichiro, a Mameshiba puppy with a red scarf around its neck.WHERE: Consulate-General of Japan in Bengaluru, Prestige Nebula, Cubbon RoadWHEN: 10.30am; 2pm, October 11 ENTRY: FreeDiwali deedsIf you are going for Diwali shopping this Sunday, head straight to Sunday Soul Sante, which is back in the city with its much-awaited Diwali Edition. With over 200 pop-up stalls, it has everything you need 鈥?from Diwali gifts and hampers to festive outfits and accessories such as shoes, bags and even jewellery, and home decor. And as and when hunger hits you, hit up their food court, which has a variety of cuisines on offer. Or, take a break over a concert, featuring singer-songwriter Zeeshan Akhtar and the band Lagori. With great stalls, great music and great food, this edition has something for everyone.WHERE: Jayamahal PalaceWHEN: 10am onwards, October 13Entry: `250 at the venue andbookmyshow.com; free for senior citizensand kids below 10Mohit Chauhan will perform in Bengaluru at the 7th edition of Alive India. Chauhan is known for hits such as Matargasthi, Tum Se Hi, Yeah, Jo Bhi Main and more. The show will celebrate the launch of We are India, a multilingual song for Alive India's 鈥極ne Nation One Music鈥?initiative.WHERE: Phoenix Marketcity, Whitefield WHEN: 6.30pm, October 1 2 ENTRY: bookmyshow.comArtMantram Trust is dedicated to creating public interest and appreciation of the arts, crafts and artists. And so, in that direction, they will be hosting 鈥楤engaluru Art Mantram Festival of Art Craft Design鈥? spanning 15 days. The idea is to bring together artists, craftsmen, and academicians and to synergise both the established and new supporters of Indian arts, crafts and design. Among many things, the festival will include Art Souk, Kalagrama 鈥?a crafts market, a dance appreciation workshop, children鈥檚 activism, and interactions with Padma Awardees, art exhibition of鈥檚 Faces, a fashion show, and a national conference on arts, craft and design.This multi-venue, multi-event festival is a unique opportunity for everyone to get involved in an effort to renew Bengaluru鈥檚 image as the 鈥榗ity of arts and artists鈥?WHERE: Across Rangoli Metro Art centre, ITC Windsor & Bangalore International Centre WHEN: October 12-20 & October 24-26 CALL: 9650057897/9845087716"
"Bangalore

Bharatanatyam

Chowdiah Memorial Hall

Three films, three critical subjects. If you are a cine buff, catch these shows todayBusiness gone bad If you are inclined towards German cinema, watch Zeit der Kannibalen (or, Age of Cannibals as it鈥檚 titled in English). This 2014 drama tells the story of two business consultants, 脰llers and Niederl盲nde, who travel to impoverished and corrupt countries where they make shady business deals, never having to leave their hotels. But suddenly they have to deal with a new colleague and the rumour of a hostile corporate takeover. Animportant mention: The film is made like a chamber play with stylised and grotesque acting. At Goethe-institut, CMH Road,Indiranagar, from 6.30pm-8pm, on October 24, call 22511300In the French film Evolution, 10-year-old Nicolas spends his days in an isolated seaside hospital, along with several other children. His mother, and the other women who tend to the boys, obscure the reasons behind the confined setting. When Nicolas spies on them after dark, he gets no closer to answers 鈥?but the puzzle pieces gradually congeal into a pileup of transgressive sexuality, body horror and strange laboratory experiments. Nicolas doesn鈥檛 put it all together, but as he learns to look harder, he takes action against the ominous events around him. At The Courtyard, 105, KH Road (Double Road), Shanthi Nagar, from 6.30pm, on October 24, free entry, call 7338677996Soz 鈥?A Ballad of Maladies transports you to the valley of Kashmir and portrays its history and politics through a journey of its music. From traditional poetry and folk music, to the political lyricism of modern hip-hop and rock, the featured artists and musicians in this film negotiate with questions of survival, resistance and freedom 鈥?all deeply embroiled in the complex conflict of Kashmir. It has been directed by Tushar and Sarvnik. At Bangalore International Centre, Domlur II Stage, from 7pm, on October 24, free entry, call 9886599675Native Narratives is no ordinary exhibition. It is a collection of paintings by late MB Patil (1939-2017), whose artistic works were as mysterious as his smile was. His works can be broadly divided, style-wise, into three categories: the collages, folksy images and his demonstrations, mainly portraiture. The burnt-wood style, for which he has been often so remembered, squarely fits into his style.WHERE: Fidelitus Gallery, Brigade Software Park, Banashankari Stage IIWHEN: 11.30am onwards, on view till October 27 CALL: 68073700If you鈥檙e a musician or a singer or somebody who simply enjoys music, Jamming Adda is the place built for you to lose yourself in the glory of music. Whether you want to sing or play an instrument or sit and enjoy some great music, you鈥檙e welcome to be a part of this family of music lovers.WHERE: Dialogues Cafe, 41, 100 Feet Rd, 4th Block, KoramangalaWHEN: 7pm, October 24ENTRY: Free, dialogues.spaceThis weekend, Drishti Art Centre, ainstitution headed by Anuradha Vikranth, is celebrating its 19-year-long journey into classical dance with a special show to mark the milestone.Called Nrityarpana, the evening will feature Bharatanatyam performances by over 350 students of Drishti, who are disciples of Vikranth, a Bharatanatyam danseuse known for her creativity, versatility, vibrancy, and grace.Her boundless thirst for more in-depth knowledge in the field of dance and deep commitment has strengthened her ingenuity to create a niche for herself as an exceptional dancer, an inspiring teacher, a creative choreographer and an able organiser who blends tradition with innovation. And that鈥檚 why her academy provides a holistic learning experience in Bharatanatyam, with classes in music and yoga as part of the curriculum.WHERE:, Malleshwaram WHEN: 6pm, October 26 ENTRY: Free DETAILS: drishtiartcentre.com"
CHENNAI: Marupakkam, a city-based media activist group, along with Goethe-institut is organising the 7th International Documentary and Short Film Festival in the city, featuring more than 50 films from across the world. The festival, which kicked off on Wednesday and will go on till February 10, was inaugurated by celebrated documentary filmmaker Anand Patwardhan at Goethe-institut, Nungambakkam The lineup comprises of 35 documentaries and 15 short films from countries such as Israel, Russia, Spain and China, besides Germany and India. Among the highlights this year will be the screening of German film director, screenwriter and author Werner Herzog 's celebrated works including 鈥楧as Land des Schweigens und der Dunkelheit鈥?(Land of Silence and Darkness) and 'Glaube und W盲hrung' (God's Angry Man), under the Retrospective category. Award-winning Indian filmmaker Reena Mohan, known for her film 鈥楰amlabai鈥?鈥?about a yesteryear actor of the Marathi stage, will also be part of the Retrospective, and an interactive session at the festival.鈥淲e shortlisted films in a way that we show audience new styles and interventions in documentary filmmaking, as well as the political and social issues that are being discussed around the world today. This year, we have something called 鈥楢rtists鈥?Cinema鈥? which is presented by C Venkiteswaran. It鈥檚 a special concept because it includes films by artists, graphic designers and painters, which are usually showcased at art festivals. At a film festival like this one, they offer a great opportunity for filmmakers and audiences to watch something unique and rare,鈥?says Amudhan R P, the festival鈥檚 director and founder of Marupakkam.The festival鈥檚 filmmaker in focus this year will be Supriyo Sen, who has made internationally acclaimed documentaries such as 鈥榃agah鈥?and 鈥楬ope Dies Last in War鈥? it received prestigious grants such as the Sundance Documentary Fund and Asian Network of Documentary Award of the Pusan International Film Festival.For festival schedule and events, go to www.goethe.de.
"Japan

hard rock

Bengaluru

Led Zeppelin

WhatsApp

Manga Planet Cosplay Walk 鈥?9 will take off in the city today. Touted to be the biggest such walk in India, it aims to promote Japanese popular culture with support of the Consulate General of. Thousands of cosplayers and Japanese pop-culture enthusiasts from all across India will participate and walk down the St Mark鈥檚 Road. Plus, you will get an opportunity to get a fun photoshoot done. So get ready for the costume drama.WHERE: St Mark鈥檚 Hotel & St Mark鈥檚 Road, Shanthala NagarWHEN: 11am-5pm, March 24CALL: 40019000The wait is over. After a gap of eight long years, the well-known Stuttgart Chamber Orchestra is set to perform in the city tonight. The programme will include a variety of classical masterpieces, and will feature musicians from India as well. Under the direction of concert master Bogdan Bo啪ovic, the ensemble will play works of German composers Bach and Brahms as well as the world premiere of Vistar, a commissioned work of the renowned Indian composer Sandeep Bhagwati.WHERE: Christ AuditoriumWHEN: 5pm-7pm, March 24ENTRY: Free passes to be collected from Goethe-institut between 10am鈥?pmCALL: 22511300City鈥檚 favourite band Girish & The Chronicles (GTC) will pay tribute to the iconic English heavy metal band Iron Maiden in a gig tonight. GTC is aband from Gangtok but is currently based in. With a mixture of power ballads and hard rock/classic metal sound, they treat their fans to sounds which are reminiscent of the 鈥?0s and 鈥?0s era, along with their original compositions. They are heavily influenced by bands such as, AC/DC, Deep Purple, Iron Maiden and Guns N鈥?Roses.WHERE: Fandom, 1st floor of Gilly鈥檚 Redefined, 4th Block, KoramangalaWHEN: 8pm, March 24ENTRY: `300 + `200 (cover), bookmyshow.comAt a workshop today, poet and journalist Sourav Roy will deconstruct poems written by the most celebrated poets of the past and present. This, to understand what makes their work timeless. He will also look at what some of the most well-known critics and literary theorists had to say about the journey of writing the perfect poem. And, of course, participants will get to write poems too.WHERE: Atta Galatta, 5th Block, Koramangala WHEN: 11am-3pm, March 24ENTRY: `500CALL: 41600677Vipul Goyal needs no introduction. Still, for those who haven鈥檛 heard of this creative genius, he is counted among the top comedy performers in India and also plays the main protagonist in the hit web series Humorously Yours. Goyal is known for relatable humour 鈥?clean, observational comedy that will resonate with most middle class Indians. So familygroups, trips to Goa, Indian dads, bikers, and babies make up his material.WHERE: RMZ Galleria Mall, Ambedkar Colony, YelahankaWHEN: 6.30pm, March 24ENTRY: `299, bookmyshow.comAmateur theatre group Samashti will stage Mukkam Post Bombilwadi, which is a Kannada translation of Paresh Mokashi鈥檚 Marathi play. In here, Hitler, having gone to Japan to acquire the formula to make an atom bomb, mistakenly descends at Bombilawadi while returning home. He gets into a police station there to use the wireless transmitter but instead gets stuck there and gets dispatched to a drama company. Then the head of this drama company gets arrested, accused of hiding Hitler. To rescue their chief, the members of the drama company disguise themselves in different attires andsomehow try to complete their stage show.WHERE: Ranga Shankara, JP NagarWHEN: 3.30pm & 7.30pm, March 24ENTRY: `100, bookmyshow.com"
"In May, 150-odd musicians, coders and curious onlookers gathered in the white cube of south Mumbai鈥檚 Max Mueller Bhavan, which had been transformed to look like a cross between a nightclub and a hackerspace. A number of tables were spread across the room, piled high with laptops, cables and assorted technical sundries. Apart from a handful of standing fluorescent tubes, the only lighting came from computer screens and a projector aimed at the wall. A short-haired young woman wearing neon shades typed away at her keyboard, triggering loops of serrated percussion that reverberated across the room. On the wall, the projector displayed a black screen with scrolling lines of computer code being written, edited and manipulated on the fly as the music morphed in tandem.

The woman behind the laptop was Mumbai-based artist and film-maker Dhanya Pilo (performing as decoy + +), and the event, Fat Finger Mayhem, was India鈥檚 first algorave.

Algorave, short for algorithmic rave, is a performance format and underground movement that revolves around the practice of live-coding, that is, writing and editing code live in front of an audience to create music and visuals. Emerging out of the demo scene of the 1980s and 1990s鈥攚here people would swap demos of graphics and music software鈥攍ive coding has been a medium for performing arts for almost three decades, but it was usually restricted to either the art world or tech and trans-media events. Then, in 2012, Sheffield-based musicians Alex McLean and Nick Collins decided to take live coding into the club environment, organizing live coding jams at local music venues under the algorave banner.

Since then, algorave has grown into a decentralized global movement, with small but interconnected communities of musicians and technology geeks spread across Europe, North and South America and Asia. Usually catering to dance audiences, the sounds that algorave artists dabble in range from techno and glitch to hip hop and even straightforward pop music. What unites them is a deconstructionist DIY approach to music production using open-source coding environments, and a commitment to display your code live, to 鈥渟how your work"" as it were.

DOING THE MATH

Over the past decade, India has also seen a number of artists dabble in creative coding and live coding as part of their practice, such as sound artist and researcher Akash Sharma (Sound.Codes) and noise music practitioner Hemant Sreekumar. But it was only last year that Pilo and multi-disciplinary creative technologist Abhinay Khoparzi came together to form Algorave India and put together India鈥檚 first proper algorave event.

鈥淚 had seen similar code-based performances at trans-media festivals in Europe, and I kept thinking that why aren鈥檛 we getting sound artists to do this stuff in India,"" says Pilo, over Skype from Sri Lanka. 鈥淪o when the Goethe-institut approached me to see if I would like to curate and put together an event for Open Codes (an exhibition that looked at coding as a new tool to create culture), I started tracking down other people who were interested in live coding.""

The first person to come on board was Khoparzi (who performs as Khoparzi), an old associate who had been turned on to algorave after attending one of McLean鈥檚 events in London in 2013. He had already been experimenting with algorithm-based music in Mumbai. Around the turn of the decade, the Third Thought Collective鈥攃onsisting of him, Shazeb Shaikh and Siddharth Bhatia, curator and artist respectively鈥攚ould organize small experimental music events where they would play around with glitched, cut-up and otherwise manipulated songs by other artists. 鈥淚 had also done live coding at technical conferences, where you would show how a particular piece of software was put together,"" he says. 鈥淏ut I didn鈥檛 know it was possible to do it in a gig environment.""

Algorave India鈥檚 live-coding workshops have attracted a diverse range of participants. Photo: Algorave India





The two began reaching out to friends and associates in the experimental music space, looking for artists who were similarly inclined. The result was a 3-hour open jam with seven artists, including the two of them as well as RAIA, tig3rbabu, KarGo Pluggy, Tejaswi and Sound.Codes, preceded by a 4-hour workshop that introduced participants to the basics of live-coding environments Gibber, Sonic Pi and TidalCycles. They had expected a handful of largely curious people at the workshop. Instead, says Pilo, 140 people turned up, ranging in age from 11-56. Since then, they have conducted two small workshops in Goa and Delhi, returning for another workshop and performance at Max Mueller Bhavan during the Kala Ghoda Arts Festival in Mumbai this February.

鈥淲e had almost 3,000 people walking in and out during the evening performance (at the February event),"" says Pilo. 鈥淲e also had some devices there for people to just come jam, and see what happens when they interfere. It was amazing.""

CODE OF CONDUCT

It鈥檚 no surprise that live coding attracts tinkerers and technologists, driven as it is by the impulse to deconstruct and demystify the back-end processes of music production. On live-coding platforms, the graphical user interfaces of commercial music production software are stripped away to reveal the mathematical logic that governs music. It is, in a way, the digital equivalent of the increasingly popular modular synthesis scene. Both algoravers and synth-heads like to dig into the guts of their machines to make music from scratch, one by manipulating live code and the other by wiring and rewiring circuits together.

鈥淚t allows for much more complex musical structures, using math to solve your musical problems on the fly,"" says Khoparzi, adding that live coding allows you to bypass the lag between action and reaction imposed by traditional music interfaces. 鈥淵ou鈥檝e got the algorithm running in your head, and you can transfer it immediately to your computer. And the fact that we get to understand each and every part of the code means we can customize it exactly how we would like it to behave.""

While some artists come into performances with prepared compositions, others like to start with a simple element鈥攁 beat, or maybe just a kickdrum鈥攁nd build the track from there. This improvisational approach allows for a lot more creative experimentation, and has the added thrill of knowing that you鈥檙e always on the verge of having your music collapse into total chaos.

鈥淲e embrace the possibility of chaos,"" says Khoparzi. 鈥淏ut the kind of audiences we are looking for are also more forgiving, because the idea itself is bigger than whatever mess-ups can happen.""

But whatever approach they prefer, algoravers tend to think of live coding as much more than just another tool to make music. It represents a different way of looking at music production and culture, one that is open, collaborative and inclusive, taking cues from the open source software community it came from. The most obvious manifestation of this is the imperative to display and share your code.

鈥淭he code acts almost like sheet music in that it鈥檚 executable,"" says Joshua Thomas (Tig3rbabu), a musician who currently helps produce podcasts for The Indian Express using the Sonic Pi live-coding environment. 鈥淪o if you like a bassline from someone鈥檚 piece, you can just copy-paste that code and you have that bassline. It just makes it transferable and easy to understand.""

But this spirit extends beyond just the code. Since this isn鈥檛 consumer software produced by big corporations with customer service departments, learning and troubleshooting is usually done through online interactive communities on platforms like GitHub and in_thread. Artists regularly collaborate on both music and software development. Both the Indian and international algorave scenes also tend to emphasize diversity and inclusivity, with a number of prominent artists being women or non-binary. While commercial music scenes operate on the model of competition between individuals, algorave leans towards the idea of being a collaborative community.

鈥淚 think live coding is the next iteration of a band,"" says Becky Fernandes (RAIA), who uses live coding to produce more traditionally pop-leaning music. She mentions a live-stream Khoparzi recently participated in with artists from four continents playing together by sending their code to a common server. 鈥淎nd at the most recent algorave, Sound.Codes used sensors to pick up what his interpretive dancers were doing and that was producing sound. Based on how he was manipulating his code, their movements would be interpreted differently. It鈥檚 just the next step in how we make music.""

With a couple of successful events under its belt, Algorave India is now looking to expand its presence and bring others into the fold by conducting workshops and performances all across the city. Its Facebook group has close to 200 members, but Pilo and Khoparzi believe the scene has the potential to grow much bigger, thanks to the fact that live coding makes music production accessible to a lot of people who may not have musical training or be able to afford an instrument.

鈥淚ndia has so many IT students who work with pure code,"" says Pilo, who wants to take the workshops to college festivals across the country. 鈥淚magine giving them all workshops and a little input into jamming using code, and then they have an extra thing to play with and a way to express themselves.""

Algoraver starter pack

If you are curious and want to experiment with live coding, this list of essential resources can get you started

Sonic Pi

Originally designed to help school- children learn music and computer programming, Sonic Pi is a simple, easy-to-use live-coding environment that鈥檚 perfect for beginners. There are a number of online tutorials to help you get started, but we recommend Mehackit鈥檚 comprehensive lesson plan, available at Sonic-pi. mehackit.org.

TidalCycles

This live-coding environment was designed specifically for algoravers by Alex McLean himself. Inspired by McLean鈥檚 research on musical time in Indian classical music, TidalCycles allows the user to create and manipulate musical patterns, making it a particularly good fit for producers interested in making music based on repetitive rhythms. It鈥檚 available for free download at Tidalcycles.org.

Gibber

Gibber is a JavaScript-based coding environment that runs in your browser, so you don鈥檛 have to worry about downloads and installation. There鈥檚 also Gibberwocky, a plug-in that allows you to use Gibber to control Ableton Live and Max MSP, so that you can use the software鈥檚 impressive effects and synth libraries for your algorave set. Available at Gibber.cc.

Hydra

If visuals are more your thing, check out Hydra, a browser-based platform for live-coding visuals which converts your browser windows into a modular and distributed video synthesizer. Developed by Colombia-based artist Olivia Jack, Hydra is inspired by both analogue synthesizers and the emergence of peer-to-peer technology. You can give Hydra a spin at Hydra-editor.glitch.me."
"Shraddha Borawake knows secret gullies, hidden streets and unique characteristics of Pune. She goes where most people rarely do, from shacks of migrant workers at construction sites to the silent cremation grounds of British soldiers. In 2016, during a visit to the Blue Diamond Bridge in Pune, she came across an undulating terrain of urban waste, made up of discarded beer cans, plastic packets and industrial end products. Staring at it, Borawake had a revelation. 鈥淚 realised that one version of our civilisation is known by the trash it leaves behind. It speaks volumes of the experience that has created this menacing pile,鈥?she says. This inspired a long-term art project called 鈥楪arb-Age鈥? An aspect of the project has been selected for 鈥楩ive Million Incidents鈥? organised by Goethe-institut Max Mueller Bhavan and conceptualised by Delhi-based Raqs Media Collective. Borawake has recently graduated as an interdisciplinary artist from Piet Zwart Institute in Rotterdam, Netherlands. One of her strongest works is a cross-cultural dialogue between woman construction workers of India and the US, which is being used by a policy group on labour rights in the US. Borawake鈥檚 works use photography, videos and sculpture to expose layers drawn from Indian spirituality, Western theory and chance encounters. She says, 鈥淭hrough the lens, I am like a voyeur of life. Over the years, my observation of the lived experience has became the raw material for my expression 鈥?an effective way to respond to the urgency of the times we live in.鈥?Excerpts from an interview:

How would you describe Garb-Age?

For me, Garb-Age is about subversion. I have been collecting a lot of found objects over the years. Now, I am inviting various experts to make shrines using this curated waste to create a large video installation. The women who take part in this ritualistic process meet me at the table in the spirit of dialogue. One of these shrines is called 鈥楥riticality鈥? in which I collaborated with Dutch artist and researcher Shailoh Philips to redefine the concept of criticism, judgment and the optics through which we assign a value to things. The larger question is whose criticality is it? We must question the rules handed to us.

What was the first bit of garbage you collected?

My collection of garbage began during the Bamboo Curtain Residency in Taiwan in the Beitou District of Taipei City. It was a blazing hot day and I was on a search for something in this industrial centre. I had almost given up, so I took a break and sat on a bench. As I looked to my left, there was a bucket full of the most beautiful optics you have ever seen in your life. It came from dismantled technology: electronics from all over the West are sent to the East to be discarded. The journey of this material fascinated me. It made me think of the maya of consumption and how memory is just a bunch of images pushing up against one another. Relationships then seem like projections and life feels like a hologram. What memory is our material carrying? This is how light and this refracting reality found an anchoring symbol through optics for the project Garb-Age.

Tell us about the other material in your collection.

I have started collecting rare earth, dried flowers, leaves, seeds and insects, such as moths and bees. What do we do we with our eco waste and irreducible debris? Doesn鈥檛 it point to insensitivity towards nature? Where you see man-nature clash, you will find dead insects and dead bees. Many insect species are under a huge threat of extinction and this is worrying. For me, insects are our ancestors who carry knowledge of our ecosystem. So, placing these discarded bodies in the work allows me to symbolise this thought about material existence.

Garb-Age started under the Blue Diamond Bridge. Why did you go there?

I had got a grant from the India Habitat Centre (IHC) in Delhi in 2016 to create a work on the ancient mythic concept of Panchatatva 鈥?the five elements in relation to awareness of our environment and sustainability. I realised if I had to make a work about environment, I must be conscious of the waste my artwork will eventually create. So, I decided that I will install using objects that already exist in this world to do my bit for the environment. I invited ceramic artist Ruby Jhunjhunwala to create some ceramic works for this. Prashant Kumar, another artist told me about his friend Babubhai, who lived under the Blue Diamond Bridge and who would get me any trash I wanted. That鈥檚 how I went to Babubhai鈥檚 place.

What did you experience that impacted you in a transformative way?

Advertisement

I saw a landscape of beer cans among the children who live there. Together, we started scavenging for ideas to build the sculptures. At one point I looked down and I found that between me and 25 surgical needles were my rubber chappals. All the while, the kids are joking and laughing making it a delightful afternoon. I began to see two sides of the garbage 鈥?one that we are in and the other is the kids鈥?future. Ultimately, I created a photo installation at IHC embellished with sculptures made from all this waste and Ruby鈥檚 ceramics to express the vast contradictions of our urban Indian lives. On the morning of the exhibition, I went to all the dustbins and took from plastic waste and arranged it so that you could not tell if it was art or life.

How did your work with garbage become conflated with comments on patriarchy?

You take something, consume it and throw away what doesn鈥檛 work for you. That, in a nutshell, is the history of gender relationships and that, as a paradigm, does not work for me anymore. That鈥檚 why I make the shrines, I attempt to carefully readdress certain meanings in the unpacking of trash. The first shrine I made to heal patriarchy was called 鈥榁oice鈥? It is a complex 60-minute film that collaborates with the work of avant garde artists Joseph Beuys and Louwrien Wijers. Louwrien worked with Beuys but remains hidden in history because of certain patriarchal systems. Thus, in the film, I am asking if Beuys is the father of German art, then who is the grandmother or mother or sister? As a gentle opening up rather than a provocation.

Advertisement

In one large photograph, there is a picture of you disappearing in a hill of garbage? Why is this work self-referential?

It is important for me to be in this picture and say that I am a lost and found body. So, I turn myself into the very canvas before pointing fingers at others. Through this abstraction, I share my own journey in terms of the relationship with what we have discarded or forgotten and our collective search for light.

How did your creative journey start?

I was born a highly creative kid. I grew up in a farm, my life was about learning from nature and humble people. I played the flute, painted, cooked, and attended to cattle and crops from a young age. I was studying in a traditional convent school, which unfortunately was not an ideal environment for a creative mind. Luckily, my parents understood my experimental core and always allowed me to explore my own lived experience with freedom and respect outside of the strict order. I was fortunate to develop an autonomous core owing to my progressive upbringing that allowed for the rules to be defined.

Your work is founded on photography. How did you start taking photos?

My photographic journey truly started in Harpreet Baccher鈥檚 little fashion photography studio in Pune. Since I had no faith in education, I decided to learn as an apprentice and master my skill independently of the institution. From fashion, I moved to documentary, mastered darkroom processes at ICP in New York and soon learnt that I was much more than a photographer. Although the image still plays a strong role in my work, these days I consider my medium to be world-building around important dialogues in society."
"Arunachal Pradesh Governor Brig (Retd) Dr B D Mishra on Tuesday called upon the newly elected MLAs to muster all their energy and resources for the state's development and to eliminate poverty of the people.

He also urged the MLAs to ""become a shining reflection of"" the slogan of NARA National Ambition, Regional Aspiration, coined by Narendra Modi after becoming the prime minister for a second time.

""My Government has strived and shall continue to strive hard to work for the welfare of our people. We will be collaborative, people centric, pro-poor, participative, transparent and inclusive and the government will function in a perfect team spirit as Team Arunachal,"" the governor said in his address to the house.

Dwelling on the development roadmap of the new government, he said the priority will be to make Arunachal Pradesh the happiest and the most prosperous state of India.

""Transparency, integrity and honesty should be are our key mantras and zero tolerance towards corruption is our touchstone,"" he added.

The priority of the government will be to enrich and empower the life of the last person standing in the queue, Mishra said.

Also Read Governor urges Centre to expedite setting up of music centres Arunachal guv seeks Centre's aid to boost tourism Arunachal Pradesh polls: 6 pc turnout till 9 am Let's work together for development: Arunachal Governor on R-Day Arunachal governor asks people work for state's development Fed 'closely monitoring' trade impact on economy: Powell Young, pregnant urged to take blood tests for lead after Notre-Dame fire Giriraj ignites fire in NDA with snide 'iftaar' tweet targeting NDA leaders Justice Prashant Kumar appointed as Jharkhand High Court acting chief justice Iran to free Lebanese jailed for US spying: Beirut

He said the new government will put its focus on health, education, water, electricity, connectivity, infrastructure and security so that each and every individual is provided with opportunities to unlock her or his potential.

""All villages will be connected with motorable, all weather roads. The proposed Trans Arunachal Highway will be completed and all district headquarters will be connected.

""East-West Industrial Corridor road project will connect all foothills with industrial potential. Railway network in the state will be expanded and inland waterways on navigable river systems will be developed to boost tourism and industry,"" Mishra said.

He said the education system will be overhauled to provide the students quality and modern education by creating modern infrastructure in a phased manner.

""Besides other health schemes, the government will promote indigenous and traditional medicines, the rich legacy of our tribal way of life,"" the governor said.

He said steps will be taken to operationalise and commission the 600 MW Kameng Hydro Power Project and 24 MW Dikshi Hydro Power Project within this year.

""My government is committed to give our citizens a safe, secure and violence free Arunachal, for which we shall deal all law & order violations with an iron hand,"" he added."
CHENNAI: Josef Wirsching , a German cinematographer, became a pioneer of the craft in India and contributed extensively to Indian cinema from 1925 when he worked with filmmaker Franz Osten in an Indo-European collaboration titled 鈥淭he Light of Asia.鈥滷rom then on, he went on to work in close to 20 films with Bombay Talkies and subsequently on films such as 鈥淢ahal,鈥?鈥淒il Apna Aur Preet Parayi,鈥?and the masterpiece 鈥淧akeezah鈥?in 1972.The Goethe-institut Chennai will pay tribute to this forgotten pioneer of cinema in India, in an exhibition titled 鈥淎 Cinematic Imagination: Josef Wirsching and the Bombay Talkies.鈥漈he exhibition will showcase original photographs and digital reprints from the Wirsching archive, of early Indian cinema relating to the Bombay Talkies.The photographs, shot primarily on 35mm with a Leica camera between the 1920s and 60s, include behind-the-scenes photographs of cast and crew, production stills, and publicity images. They also throw light on the aesthetic decisions, creative communities and cross-cultural exchanges that were central to filmmaking in late colonial India.The show will bring to the fore the role of German technicians and interwar image-making practices.
"Akhila Damodaran By

Express News Service

BENGALURU: Today, our reliance and dependence on being connected to the internet is common but the extent of it is quite terrifying to Debosmita Dam. 鈥淲e have apps for everything 鈥?food, shopping, dating, meditation, medical assistance, general entertainment and apps that remind you to drink water. There is a market for everything. And it reflects a larger change in our lifestyle than being just about teenagers SnapChatting all the time,鈥?she says.

Debosmita will be presenting a staged reading of Norway Today, written by contemporary German playwright Igor Bauersima that follows two young people who connect on the internet and decide to meet, because they have one thing in common 鈥?an urge to commit suicide. Since the play talks about the saturation we have reached with regard to technology and access to the internet, the team spent some time observing patterns and changes that have emerged over the last few years in social media, and the general role of the internet in our everyday lives. The play is about the duo who talk about their shared feeling of disconnect with people and world around them, and how growing up doesn鈥檛 seem exciting anymore because through the internet, they feel like they鈥檝e seen it all. 鈥淢ore than it being a play about suicide, it explores one possible reaction, one possible consequence, of the interconnectedness of life and technology.

They are disillusioned majorly because their interactions with the world have been mediated by technology. While it has shown them the many opportunities and possibilities in life, they haven鈥檛 really experienced much of it, and that is the effect ultimately that a bombardment of information has on our lives. I chose this script because it felt extremely relevant to out current times,鈥?she says.

This show is the fourth and last in a series of dramatised readings called German Spotlight, which is a joint project of Sandbox Collective and Goethe-institut /Max Mueller Bhavan. This is also the first reading that Debosmita has directed. 鈥淪o it gave me the opportunity to explore something new,鈥?she says.

Staged/dramatised readings are an alternate form of plays, she says and hence, they aren鈥檛 so different from theatre. 鈥淚t has both its pros and cons when compared to a full-length production of the same play/script. One of the biggest pros is that it eliminates an actor鈥檚 worst nightmare on stage, which is forgetting lines, because you always have the text in front of you, she says, adding that it is also a great way to engage with the storytelling aspect of theatre, as in this form, the focus is always the text, and letting the story come out naturally. On the other hand, in a full length production, there are many other elements such as set, lights and sound. 鈥淚t is also a very interesting way to engage with scripts that are written in other parts of the world, as a form of cultural exchange,鈥?she adds.



Staged reading

Where: Goethe-institut / Max Mueller Bhavan

When: August 4, 7 pm

Entry to the event is free.

BENGALURU: Today, our reliance and dependence on being connected to the internet is common but the extent of it is quite terrifying to Debosmita Dam. 鈥淲e have apps for everything 鈥?food, shopping, dating, meditation, medical assistance, general entertainment and apps that remind you to drink water. There is a market for everything. And it reflects a larger change in our lifestyle than being just about teenagers SnapChatting all the time,鈥?she says. Debosmita will be presenting a staged reading of Norway Today, written by contemporary German playwright Igor Bauersima that follows two young people who connect on the internet and decide to meet, because they have one thing in common 鈥?an urge to commit suicide. Since the play talks about the saturation we have reached with regard to technology and access to the internet, the team spent some time observing patterns and changes that have emerged over the last few years in social media, and the general role of the internet in our everyday lives. The play is about the duo who talk about their shared feeling of disconnect with people and world around them, and how growing up doesn鈥檛 seem exciting anymore because through the internet, they feel like they鈥檝e seen it all. 鈥淢ore than it being a play about suicide, it explores one possible reaction, one possible consequence, of the interconnectedness of life and technology. They are disillusioned majorly because their interactions with the world have been mediated by technology. While it has shown them the many opportunities and possibilities in life, they haven鈥檛 really experienced much of it, and that is the effect ultimately that a bombardment of information has on our lives. I chose this script because it felt extremely relevant to out current times,鈥?she says.googletag.cmd.push(function() {googletag.display('div-gpt-ad-8052921-2'); }); This show is the fourth and last in a series of dramatised readings called German Spotlight, which is a joint project of Sandbox Collective and Goethe-institut /Max Mueller Bhavan. This is also the first reading that Debosmita has directed. 鈥淪o it gave me the opportunity to explore something new,鈥?she says. Staged/dramatised readings are an alternate form of plays, she says and hence, they aren鈥檛 so different from theatre. 鈥淚t has both its pros and cons when compared to a full-length production of the same play/script. One of the biggest pros is that it eliminates an actor鈥檚 worst nightmare on stage, which is forgetting lines, because you always have the text in front of you, she says, adding that it is also a great way to engage with the storytelling aspect of theatre, as in this form, the focus is always the text, and letting the story come out naturally. On the other hand, in a full length production, there are many other elements such as set, lights and sound. 鈥淚t is also a very interesting way to engage with scripts that are written in other parts of the world, as a form of cultural exchange,鈥?she adds. Staged reading Where: Goethe-institut / Max Mueller Bhavan When: August 4, 7 pm Entry to the event is free."
CHENNAI: The Goethe-institut is raising the curtains on the latest edition of its Science Film Festival this year, with 38 films shortlisted from countries like Germany , the US, Austria, Australia and Indonesia. The films were selected from 278 entries from 24 countries this year.The objective, according to the institute, is to promote science literacy and awareness of contemporary scientific, technological and environmental issues through film and television content with accompanying educational activities."The festival was initiated by the Goethe-institut in 2005, following which it has grown across the world. In Chennai, it was launched last year with the theme 'Anthropocene' (a term denoting the current geological age, viewed as the period during which human activity has been the dominant influence on climate and the environment.) This year's theme is 'The Food Revolution'," says Geetha Vedaraman, programme coordinator, Goethe-institut Chennai.The genres this year cover family edutainment, ecology and environment, natural science, life science and technology, culture and history, non-verbal and science shorts.The festival will be organised in cooperation with Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, Environmentalist Foundation of India, Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan, National Stem Education, PASCH (Schools: Partners for the Future) and Rotary Club of Madras (East). It will be inaugurated by T Ramasami, former secretary, Department of Science and Technology.It will be held in Goethe-institut auditorium at 4.30pm on October 4.
"Arturo Sandoval

Contemporary capers

Jehangir Art Gallery

NCPA and MMB turn 50

Two unusual retrospectives

It鈥檚 play time

Sunil Shanbag

Deven Khote

Children鈥檚 Museum set to open

There鈥檚 a lot to look forward to, including a close look at Prabhakar Barwe鈥檚 works, the 50th birthday celebrations of the NCPA, and jazz trumpeter鈥檚 visit.To commemorate the 20th anniversary of Colaba鈥檚 Art Musings, cultural theorist Ranjit Hoskote will curate an exhibition at the, featuring the works of 20 artists, in February. The list includes Nalini Malani, Anjolie Ela Menon, Baiju Parthan, Atul Dodiya, Chittrovanu Mazumdar, and Sakti Burman. The same month, graphic artist Sarnath Banerjee will present his work for the first time at the Dr Bhau Daji Lad Museum. Reena Kallat will have her first solo exhibition at the Jehangir Nicholson Art Gallery, in November. And, artist Jogen Chowdhury promises a big show at Priyasri Art Gallery, Worli, at the end of the year.To mark the milestone, the National Centre for the Performing Arts com is planning a year-long celebration that will culminate in a big end-of-year event. Western classical music lovers will be delighted to learn that Arturo Sandoval 鈥?a 10-time Grammy award winner, Emmy Award recipient, and a prot茅g茅 of the legendary jazz master Dizzy Gillespie, no less 鈥?will be performing in November this year. He has performed with the foremost orchestras in India and abroad, and has recorded John Williams鈥?Trumpet Concerto with the London Symphony Orchestra. Goethe-institut Max Mueller Bhavan turns 50 in October. The celebrations will include a series of events, including a proposed exhibition by Nalini Malani and a public performance directed and produced by one of the biggest names in documentary theatre 鈥擠aniel Wetzel.This February, the National Gallery of Modern Art will host a retrospective exhibition of late artist Prabhakar Barwe鈥檚 work. Curated by Jesal Thacker and Shruti Das (Deputy Curator, NGMA Mumbai), Inside the Empty Box aims to decipher Barwe鈥檚 life, art and mind through the medium of painting, writings and diary notations. In July, Thacker will also be curating master modernist V S Gaitonde鈥檚 works from the Jehangir Nicholson Art Foundation (JNAF) collection, along with JNAF鈥檚 Kamini Sawhney, at the JNAF gallery at CSMVS. In the second half of 2019, cultural theorists Nancy Adajania and Hoskote will co-curate a retrospective of selftaught sculptor Adi Davierwalla with Pundoles, at Hamilton House.Theatre directoris working with the Drama School Mumbai on their 2019 student production in March. The students will be staging a text by veteran playwright Girish Karnad, which is not very well known outside of Karnataka. Its original title is Tale Danda. The Hindi translation will be Rakta Kalyan. The same month will also see actormake his debut as a director with a thrilling comedy, Good Mourning, written by Kavi Shastri. Fans of Rage鈥檚 One on One 鈥?a series of monologues about contemporary India 鈥?will be pleased to know that the group will open its third edition later this year. Towards the end of the year, Raell Padamsee 鈥?daughter of late theatre veteran Alyque Padamsee 鈥?will also be putting together two shows featuring the best of her father鈥檚 plays and musicals. In all likelihood, these performances will feature the original cast.Located in the premises of the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Vastu Sangrahalaya, and designed by ace architect Rahul Mehrotra, the city鈥檚 first Children鈥檚 Museum 鈥?which has been in the making for over two years 鈥?will open its doors in the first half of 2019. The museum, sponsored by the Bank of America, is an extension of CSMVS鈥?education department. A team of children will curate its first exhibition. The CSMVS will also open its first jewellery gallery, with curios from the museum鈥檚 own collection."
"鈥淐olours of the Soul鈥?by Senkoe, a Mexican street artist, in Delhi, 2016, as part of St+art India.

A cut-out painted by Dipak Sarast, as part of a project conceptualised by Hanif Kureshi, for St+art India in Goa, 2017.

Sameer Kulavoor鈥檚 mural outside Artisans鈥? a gallery and handicrafts store in Mumbai.

Ranjit Dahiya has painted murals of Bollywood stars like Amitabh Bachchan, Rajesh Khanna, and Madhubala, mostly in Mumbai, but also in Delhi, Chennai, Paris and Greensboro (US).

鈥楳agnetic Majestic鈥?by Kulavoor on the walls of the Kempegowda Majestic metro station in Bengaluru, done as part of the St+art India festival in 2016



Anonymous graffiti artist Guess Who caught people鈥檚 attention with his satirical works in Fort Kochi

Eduardo Kobra鈥檚 mural of Gandhi outside the Churchgate station in Mumbai, a project that was part of St+art India 2017.

Clinics advertising cures for everything from back pain to erectile dysfunction. Posters of movies which are about to release and of politicians fighting an election. Declarations of teenage love. And, of course, generous doses of paan spittle. A welcome addition to these on the walls of urban India are a wide variety of murals, thanks to a bunch of initiatives promoting street art.St+art India (pronounced 鈥榮tart鈥? is the largest of these efforts. First held in Delhi in 2014, the street art festival has so far had nine editions in all in five cities 鈥?three in Delhi, two each in Mumbai and Hyderabad, and one each in Bengaluru and Goa. Arjun Bahl, cofounder and festival director of St+art India Foundation, says the idea behind starting the festival was to make art more democratic. 鈥淭here was a need to make art available to all. The best way to do it was to put it on the streets.鈥漈he latest editions of the festival in Mumbai, Hyderabad and Goa just concluded. In November and December, the festival had turned Mumbai鈥檚 Sassoon Dock into something of a gallery which was open to the public, free of cost, between Thursday and Sunday. From photographs of the fisherfolk of the area on the walls outside to installations inspired by the sights, smells and history of Sassoon Dock, the festival made many curious enough to visit. Bahl says there were around 2,000 visitors every day.The festival, backed by Asian Paints, kicked off in October with an 81-ft mural of Mahatma Gandhi outside Churchgate station by Eduardo Kobra, a Brazilian street artist known for his portraits. Among the other prominent foreign artists at the festival was Australia鈥檚 Guido van Helten, who painted a mural of three Koli women he met at Sassoon Dock. He then went to Mahim, where he spent three weeks interacting with the locals, including from adjacent Dharavi. He then depicted two kids b-boying, a popular activity among adolescent boys in the area, on a residential building at Mahim.鈥淭here is a tendency among artists to fly in and fly out. I arrive with no idea of what I am going to do. I learn about the place and the people. That鈥檚 pretty challenging,鈥?says van Helten. He says street art is a loose, umbrella term which also includes graffiti. Unlike graffiti, he says, 鈥渕ural art is done with permissions.鈥?He has also done a mural in Panjim, Goa鈥檚 capital, also for St+art India.Sameer Kulavoor, a Mumbai-based artist who has been involved with St+art India in Mumbai and Bengaluru, says street art gives the creator access to the widest possible audience. 鈥淎 guy in a Mercedes and a bhelpuri hawker will both see it.鈥?He adds that unlike painting in a studio, the process of creation of street art would involve talking to passersby. In 2016, Kulavoor transformed the walls of the Kempegowda Majestic metro station in Bengaluru. Called 鈥楳agnetic Majestic鈥? the work is a visually arresting ode to the Majestic market, with a magnetic pulling people and objects to it.For the Sassoon Dock project, Kulavoor made 鈥楶arfum Sassoon鈥? a mural and a larger-than-life installation of two perfume boxes, denoting the fragrances of Bombay duck and mackerel, two common fish of the city. Kulavoor has also done murals for a co-working space in Chennai and and a gallery and handicrafts store in Mumbai.Among the most popular and prominent murals of Mumbai are of legends of Hindi cinema. Under the Bollywood Art Project, Ranjit Dahiya has since 2012 painted images of Amitabh Bachchan, Rajesh Khanna, Amrish Puri and Madhubala. It started as an effort to mark 100 years of Hindi cinema in 2013. As part ofSt+art India鈥檚 first Mumbai festival in Mumbai, Dahiya painted a mural of Dadasaheb Phalke, who made India鈥檚 first feature-length feature film in 1913, at Bandra in 2014. 鈥淧eople have just started doing it (murals). It will take some time to make our cities beautiful. Murals add colour and even a message to a plain building,鈥?says Dahiya, who has also painted murals of Nadira in Delhi and Vyjayanthimala in Chennai, the latter as part of Conquer the Concrete, a street art festival in 2015. The festival was organised by the Goethe-institut and Chennai City Connect, an urban management initiative. Yogesh Saini, who founded Delhi Street Art, a collective, in 2013, calls street art 鈥減erishable, accessible art.鈥?He says street art has a shelf life - from a few hours to a few days to a few years. 鈥淚t can鈥檛 be preserved and it鈥檚 not meant to be.鈥?Delhi Street Art has travelled to around 15 cities, including Mumbai, Pune, Bengaluru, Ahmedabad, Bhopal, and smaller cities like Rishikesh and Gorakhpur. 鈥淭he idea was to find a creative outlet and in the process add some aesthetics and beauty to our cities and our open environments, which don鈥檛 necessarily have any public expressions.鈥?Delhi Street Art has worked at government schools, night shelters and even Mandoli and Tihar prisons, where some inmates also participated.As awareness and acceptance of street art grows, it is likely more cities, including smaller ones, will benefit. St+art India鈥檚 Bahl says the foundation is looking at cities in the south like Coimbatore and Madurai. Guess Who, an anonymous graffiti artist like Banksy, was much talkedabout on social media a few years ago when people started sharing pictures of the artist鈥檚 satirical works in Fort Kochi: Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels dressed as Hindu saints, Heath Ledger鈥檚 Joker as a Chakyar Koothu (a monologue performance) artist, and Vincent van Gogh, Salvador Dali and Pablo Picasso in mundu and chappals.In the next couple of months, St+art India will organise festivals in Chandigarh and Kolkata, which has another street art festival, led by painter Jogen Chowdhury. The Kolkata Street Art Festival, begun in mid-2017, aims to have around 500 murals in the city in five years.Indian cities have a long way to go before they can boast of a vibrant street art culture like Bogota, Sao Paulo, Melbourne and Los Angeles, but a start has definitely been made."
And the stage is set for the newest edition of German Spotlight in Bengaluru. Over the past four years, this arts project has facilitated a lot more than just a cultural exchange between India and Germany. It鈥檚 a discourse between actors, directors and playwrights of two countries that aims at helping the audience 鈥渄iscover the fact that people around the world have more in common than we think鈥? A collaboration between Sandbox Collective and Goethe-institut/Max Mueller Bhavan, the 2018 edition of the initiative will showcase English translations of four German plays in the form of dramatized readings.Debosmita Dam, who is spearheading the project alongside Nimi Ravindran, says, 鈥淕erman Spotlight is a cultural exchange of a different kind. The scripts chosen for the dramatized readings are written by contemporary German playwrights, who are quite excited about their work being presented to the Indian audience. Although there is no set theme for the readings, the stories 鈥?which are made accessible through an online bank at Goethe-institut 鈥?are interesting and quite relatable.鈥?In the past, some of the German Spotlight scripts had been staged as full-length theatre productions in the city.Laced with interactive sessions before and after the act, dramatised readings have been quite popular among theatre lovers of all age groups in the city. 鈥淚t鈥檚 a curious storytelling format that the audiences usually find to be more engaging than watching a play at an auditorium, as they can almost visualise the scenes and be part of the experience,鈥?adds Debosmita, who is also directing one of the four acts, titledThe show is opening on June 30 with the reading of, directed by Karen D鈥橫ello. Speaking about the experience, she says, 鈥淩ehearsed play readings give a lot of freedom to the actor as well as the director to explore varied modes of acting within the performance. It鈥檚 a flexible format 鈥?something like the experience between writing a short story and a novel. Cut to, although it鈥檚 a German script, the story holds universal relevance. The plot is set in 2006, when SMS was the preferred mode of communication. It was fun to work around the basic emojis of that time.鈥?The cast of this play includes artistes Honey Raza, Nisha Abdulla, Pranay Pandey, Sneha Ram, Vishnu Narain and Sunayana Premchander.The play is about six university students struggling to find their way through their dreams, their longing for love and their insecurities in the quest for something permanent.It deals with issues of familial discord, friendship and abuse in a relationship from a young and urban viewpoint.The play speaks of music and war and hope. It brings to life the romance and nostalgia of the Jazz age, love for theatre and the good-old family amid unspeakable horrors.This story is essentially a conversation between two young people, who belong to a generation where most of their interactions happen through technology.
 traces the life of six students struggling to figure out their lives.

 seek stability and are looking for the right path to becoming a full-fledged adult




 I never will. The audience will be left with the question

 is to help discover that people around the world have more in common than we think

 the director urges her team to not judge or think of the youth as immature.

 does not want to be lonely and is figuring out their purpose. It鈥檚 just that we think we have matured with age

 Pranay Pandey

 traces the life of six students struggling to figure out their lives. 鈥淵oungsters may not have any big responsibilities at that age but they navigate insecurities
"The last two weeks at KM Music Conservatory and Goethe-institut have witnessed a period of intense musical explorations by a group of 15 South Asian and German artistes, who are being directed by two German masters, double bass player Sebastian Gramss and saxophonist Roger Hanschel. This cross-genre interaction is a part of the South Asian Music Residency (SAMUR), the annual collaborative music project conducted by both the Goethe-institut and KM Music Conservatory. In-house pianist Adam Greig and composer James Bunch are also involved in the project. SAMUR鈥檚 first edition was conducted last year, and this year鈥檚 chapter will culminate in two concerts today and tomorrow, where the musicians will present their work, created over the two weeks, in a cross-cultural music performance.



Roger that

Roger, who founded the fusion music group Trio Benares in 2014 along with sitarist Deobrat Mishra and tabla maestro Prashant Mishra, tells us that the group will try to strike a balance between contemporary and classical music during the concerts. 鈥淭he first week, starting August 18, was spent in introductions and various lectures and workshops. Both the emerging and experienced musicians and composers discussed new compositions and ideas,鈥?he says, recalling the workshop by pianist Anil Srinivasan, who spoke about the infinite innovations and interpretations in music that are possible even in a short period like two weeks.

Sebastian Gramss



Group dynamics

鈥淩ehearsals started this week, and I must say it has been a colourful experience so far. During the concerts, the group will be divided into small and big ensembles, each of whose pieces will be interspersed with each other with smooth crossfades,鈥?says Roger, who adds that the music covers a vast range of genres and musicians, including sounds from neighbouring countries, by Hindustani classical vocalist Waheedullah Saghar from Afghanistan and Bangladeshi composer Teerath Kumar Majumder. There is also Stefan Sch枚negg, a double bass player from Germany, who is the co-founder of Impakt, a collective of improv musicians in Cologne, Germany. The city-based musicians in the line-up are guitarist Deepak Srinivas and Indo-Western composer Nakul Krishnamurthy (who sang the song Ta Ta Tang in the 2016 Prithviraj-starrer Darvinte Parinamam). Meanwhile, Deepak has released a haunting improvised piece called Metanoia on Facebook, which he produced along with Nepali flutist Roshan Putwar at the Residency.



September 1-2. 7 pm onwards. At KMCC Auditorium and Goethe-institut Auditorium, respectively. Visit samuresidency.blogspot.in. Details: 43444786, 28331314



"
"GENDER Bender, for the past three years, through its projects and installations, has been creating dialogue and discourse about gender and sexuality. A collaboration between Sandbox Collective and the Goethe-institut, the festival is also co-curated by the online publication, The Ladies Finger. This year, 10 grantees will showcase their works on topics ranging from the LGBTQ community in the Middle East to a multi-player game about caste and gender.

鈥淕ender is an issue which is on our priority list. And when it comes to the larger picture, we also support and promote emerging artists and this has been achieved in substantial measure through this project,鈥?says Maureen Gonsalves, cultural coordinator at Goethe-institut / Max Mueller Bhavan. This year, the judges who selected these artists included Sadanand Menon, arts editor, Sameera Iyengar, co-founder and director of the theatre organisation Junoon, A Mangai theatre director and Jasmeen Patheja, founder of Blank Noise.

鈥淲e get applications from across the world, and across genres,鈥?says Medha Agrawal from Sandbox Collective, adding, 鈥淎lthough in the past two editions, a majority of the projects have been performance-oriented (dance, theatre and puppetry), this year is more focused on visual arts.鈥?While it may have started as a small grantee showcase festival, Gender Bender has grown into an important movement in the area

of gender politics.



This year鈥檚 grantees:

Ibtisam, a mixed African-American, explores the lives of the LGBTQ community in the Middle East with her project.



Madhushree Basu is a dancer based in Chennai and her project, Swachhandacharinee, is based on Malayalam poet Vayalar Ramavarma鈥檚 poems.



Sukriti Sureka, from Muzaffarpur, brings together women who are Madhubani painters.



Arunima Bose鈥檚 In Full Bloom: Playing with Pleasure aims to do away with the shame associated with women touching themselves.



Aarthi Murali鈥檚 Amma Is In Town explores the dynamics between a mother and daughter.



Shilpa Mudbi Kothakota recreates Yellammanaata, a ritualistic overnight play hosted by lower caste Hindus around Hyderabad, Karnataka and Southern Maharashtra.



Hysterical Hysteria, by Himani Pant, uses data research to examine what hysteria means in today鈥檚 times.



Elisabeth Pfahl鈥檚 Architecture of Humanness: Passages from One State to Another is an installation made with bras.



Sreecheta Das鈥檚 work revolves around a female artisan who works on creating the Durga Puja idols in Kolkata.



Fields of View, a research group, designs a multi-player game that provides the audience a firsthand, immersive experience of gender, caste and class.



Entry free. September 9, 9 am.

At Goethe-institut Bangalore, Indira Nagar. Details: 25205305

"
"Days after Surjit Nongmeikpam performed an interesting portrayal of the relationship between humans and lemons in Folktale, two other unique performances by city-based practitioners take centre stage this week. While Anoushka Kurien presents the unusually titled, to be danced, Aparna Nagesh of Madras Dance Arts will perform Duende.



Make a move



In another example of how the concept of movement and motion inspires an idea for a cultural performance, Anoushka Kurien鈥檚 to be danced uses techniques of projection to portray her understanding of the subject. We are immediately reminded of French choreographer Cecile Loyer鈥檚 production Histoires Vraies from four months ago. Anoushka, who has worked with Padmini Chettur and also teaches dance at Koothu-P-Pattarai, explores the moments when people begin to move and how they progress to dance, starting from the first impulse and continuing into interaction. The solo performance will see Anoushka鈥檚 movements being projected onto the wall as she performs live, lending the impression of a parallel mirror effect. With lights by M Natesh, sound by Daruka Siva, film by Deepa Vaswani and technical support by Raymond Selvaraj, the performance will be hosted by Basement 21 at the Goethe-institut Auditorium. 45 mins. September 8. 7 pm onwards. Details: 28331314



Movers and sayers



Months after their immersive theatre production, Frankly Speaking, Kirthi Jayakumar and Aparnaa Nagesh have come together again to present a compelling dance performance that seeks to a create awareness about various societal problems. Titled Duende (referring to the spirit of inspiration), it comprises of three acts 鈥?White Noise, Depaysment and Her Story. While the first talks about mental illnesses, the second portrays the life of a displaced refugee. Her Story on the other hand reflects on contributions made by women that have largely been ignored. Written by Kirthi, it will feature folk music by Vishwa Bharat. This will be followed by a performance by students of KM Conservatory, directed by Lijo K Jose. Presented by High Kicks dance ensemble. 60 mins. September 10. 4 pm and 7 pm. Tickets at `200 on in.bookmyshow.com"
"Christopher Kloeble鈥檚 story proves yet again that love knows no boundaries. The German novelist and scriptwriter first visited India in 2012, where he met Saskya Jain, also a writer and daughter of German-Indian parents.

They fell in love and married. In his non-fiction Home Made in India: A Love Story between Delhi and Berlin, he traces what it means to commute between the continents: perceptive, amusing, and finely nuanced.

There are clich茅s and stereotypes on both sides ~ Indians mock the Germans鈥?impatience and devoutness to rules, whereas the Germans find India exotic. In two readings ~ one at Goethe-institut and the other at Khoj International Artists鈥?Association ~ the author talked about the people he met and how he became part of an extended family.

He discussed with Indian author Chandrahas Choudhury (Arzee the Dwarf) about cultural perceptions and misunderstandings. Kloeble says, 鈥淚 find writing an extremely creative medium, especially for the output of expressions, which is what I actively do through this very versatile medium.

The diversities of my life have helped enrich my style and the content too. Of course, every 鈥榩roject鈥?has its challenges, but these are what helps raise the learning curve, manifold. Is it not?鈥?Kloeble was writer-in-residence at Cambridge University (UK) and Max Kade Visiting Professor at Dartmouth College (US). His debut novel Amongst Lonerswon him the J眉rgen Ponto Foundation Prize, and his first screenplay Inclusion received the Asia Pacific Broadcasting Prize.

In 2012, his novel Almost Everything Very Fast was published in Germany, and released in the US in February 2016."
PUNE: The online registration for 300 seats at the Pune centre for external courses in German closed in just 30 minutes. Candidates of Goethe-institut in Max Mueller Bhavan , who failed to register, were a disappointed lot.The link to the registration site was removed after 340 candidates registered for courses on Thursday morning. Several candidates called up the centre and sent emails to staff enquiring about the shutdown.However, the authorities said, 鈥渢he limit was met so the link was disabled. It is a regular practice. However, candidates can register at five other centres in India if they failed to do it in Pune.鈥滱ccording to applicants, there were issues with the registration process. One of them said, 鈥淲hen I tried to register online on Thursday, the link did not work. I attempted many timed but to no avail. I also tried to get in touch with the centre in Pune to find out about the problem. But I was told that the registration process was over.鈥漈he head of language courses and examinations, Savita Apte, said, 鈥淭he registration was for external candidates and we have only 300 seats. After 340 registrations were received, the link was disabled as we cannot afford to have more than 300 students due to our own limitations.鈥滱pte said that the centre has 29 faculties and based on that strength, the registrations were limited to 300 seats. The registration process opened at 9am.鈥淲e have been responding to calls and emails from candidates who failed to register. I have been telling everybody that it is an external exam and, therefore, candidates can register at other centres in the country,鈥?Apte added.The registrations of 40 additional candidates will be put on the waiting list, Apte said. The centre offers courses in all levels of German and exam preparation.
CHENNAI: When photographer Shannon Zirkle moved from the US to her husband鈥檚 home in Chennai, she found that very few women chose a career behind the camera. That was seven years ago.Now, as the founder of the Fearless Women Photographers Chennai , she comes across a large number of women shutterbugs; all they need is a little bit of encouragement. And the group aims to do exactly that 鈥?by giving them a common platform to showcase their work, and provide constructive feedback.鈥淲e launched the forum a year ago to support women in a field mostly dominated by men,鈥?says Zirkle, recalling the first meeting of wedding photographers she attended in the city, where she was the only other woman in a group of 32 lensmen.鈥淏ut, as soon as I started the FB group, which has 74 members now, many women 鈥?all highly skilled and qualified 鈥?began coming out of the woodwork,鈥?says Zirkle.The group organises show and tell sessions. 鈥淲e held the first such event in December 2016. It鈥檚 a photo critique, where women submit entries online, a professional photographer chooses the best ones, and we meet for coffee and conversation and discuss the work,鈥?says Zirkle, adding that the group meets every month. The second event, held on December 3, had monsoon as the theme.The events are held in collaboration with Chennai Photo Biennale Foundation, which was founded in 2015. 鈥淚t was established by photographer Varun Gupta and then director of Goethe-institut Helmut Schippert, who wanted to promote art in public spaces,鈥?says Gayatri Nair , 35, a freelance wedding photographer. 鈥淭he women鈥檚 group is an extension of it, as we wanted to create a space for women to share their work.鈥滺aving gone down a traditional career path, studying engineering and working in a bank before switching careers, Nair feels that the industry was male-dominated as it was seen as a field that required you to be outdoors, work late nights and carry heavy equipment.But that鈥檚 changed drastically in the last few years, feels photographer Ami Gupta, 40, who specialises in shooting portraits, kids and documentary projects. 鈥淚t is a creative field, which offers you freedom to take decisions and also flexibility with regard to timings, so more women are taking to it,鈥?she says, adding that shooting ads and weddings also pays well.Despite this, women are still not coming to the forefront, feels documentary photographer Shuchi Kapoor. 鈥淓ven during the 2015 Biennale, we had very little participation from Chennai women photographers,鈥?she says. 鈥淢aybe women being at the helm of this group will encourage more women to come out and participate.鈥漈hat鈥檚 also why the group is called 鈥榝earless鈥? 鈥淔earless Women Photographers brings together women to build confidence and express individuality through their photography. I would like women to have the courage to follow their passion and not allow stereotypes to stop them from achieving their dreams,鈥?says Zirkle.The group hopes to expand its reach. 鈥淲e hope women from other parts of TN will participate. Our vision is to build a huge network of women,鈥?says Kapoor.
CHENNAI: Films themed on sexuality and gender diversity will be screened at the fourth edition of Reel Desires- Chennai International Queer Film Festival 2016, to start at the Goethe-institut / Max Mueller Bhavan in Nungambakkam on Friday.This time, 26 films (shorts, documentaries, and feature-length) from eight countries, namely, Brazil, Canada, France, Germany, India, Spain, the United Kingdom, and the United States of America will be screened. Some 13 entries are from Indian film-makers including Tamil, Marathi, Malayalam, and Hindi.Key issues in the global struggle for rights of lesbian, gay, bi- and transgender (LGBT) people, will be highlighted. Films will also explore the lives of people in various cultures and castes.'FiveFilms4freedom,' part of a social media campaign by the British Film Institute (BFI) and the British Council, will also be screened.Breaking Free, a documentary by Sridhar Rangayan will be screened on the evening of July 29. It was filmed over seven years and chronicles the struggle of the LGBT community during their efforts to legalise homosexuality. Feature films at the festival include You and I, a German film and Aligarh by Hansal Mehta, which is about the ordeals of 64-year-old Professor Shrinivas Ramchandra Siras who was targeted for being homosexual. He later committed suicide."Aligarh was released in Chennai in Hindi so it will be screened with English subtitles so that it reaches a wider audience," said Felix Suganathan, a volunteer of Orinam, a Chennai-based collective supporting the LGBT community and a key organiser of the festival.
"Bringing art into the discourse on gender identity and feminism, Goethe-institut and Sandbox Collective will be hosting the second-edition of 鈥楪ender Bender鈥? a two-day fest on September 3 and 4.





Co-curated by feminist magazine, 鈥楾he Ladies Finger鈥? the performances will interpret gender and its interaction with society through various mediums like puppetry, theatre, installations, movement and mixed media illustrations.



鈥淟ast year, when a lot of discussion on gay rights and Section 377 (unnatural offences) was happening, Goethe-institut suggested that we curate a fest on the theme of gender,鈥?said Charu Mittal from Sandbox Collective.



For this year鈥檚 fest, 100 entries have been received, of which 12 were shortlisted by an independent panel of filmmaker Paromita Vohra, actor Kirtana Kumar, activist Gautam Bhan and scholar Anmol Vellaniin June. Each team or solo performer was given a grant of Rs 30,000 as support.



One of the performers is Padmini Ray Murray, an academic at the Srishti Institute of Art, Design and Technology, who will bring to life significant women from the history of the city like courtesan Bangalore Nagarathnamma and a doctor and Kannada writer, Anupama Niranjana.



鈥淎 majority of the statues around the world and in India are of men. I wondered why shouldn鈥檛 we commemorate women who had a big role to play in our history,鈥?Murray said, explaining the idea behind the installation. Instead of making temporary statues, she thought of using holographs, which can be viewed only when light falls on them in a certain angle to signify that there are pioneers amongst women too but they go unseen.



Morgan Campbell, a doctoral candidate, with Nayana Udayashankar, an environment lawyer, will be presenting their observations from interactions with the women bus conductors of Bengaluru.



鈥淲hen I moved here in January, I noticed large number of women working as conductors and I began to wonder about the dynamics between them, the driver and the passengers.鈥?Campbell and Udayashankar will be sharing stories of women they worked with, through video clips of interviews, voice recordings and interactive sessions. 鈥淭hey have several challenges, of course, like negotiating with maternity leave and breastfeeding their child while on an eight-hour shift. But there are positive stories too, of how passengers helped them learn bus routes and stop names when they were new to the city,鈥?Campbell said. Other performers at the event include Aruna Ganesh Ram, Avril Stormy Unger, Deepikah R Bhardwaj, Diya Naidu, Kadak Collective, Kokila Bhattacharya, Neha Singh, Aagaaz, Varun Ram Kurtkoti and Varun Narain.



The performances will be held at Goethe-institut/Max Mueller Bhavan on Saturday and Sunday from 5 pm onwards.

"
"September 23, 2016 05:26 pm | Updated November 01, 2016 08:29 pm IST - Thiruvananthapuram

City girl and shutter bug Anjali Gopan has still not got over her discovery of Chala bazaar in the company of German photographer Nora Bibel. 鈥淚 have been going to this market since I was a kid and I never knew it was such a treasure trove of people, homes and images. I went there as a customer to buy vegetables and other things. One never thought of the families there or their stories. It was such an exciting treasure hunt when I re-discovered my city,鈥?says the youngster.

Nora was in the city as artist-in-residence in a project supported by the Goethe-institut. Syed Ibrahim, the director of Goethe-Zentrum Trivandrum had told her about the quaint, centuries-old Chala bazaar and she was intrigued by its fascinating mosaic of mercantile traditions and communities.

Anjali, a graduate of the National Institute of Design, assisted Nora in her project by acting as guide, translator and assistant. She also snapped some eye-catching pictures of Nora at work in Chala. In the process, it became a golden opportunity for her to explore a fascinating world that lay behind the glittering stores and crumbling facade of old buildings. 鈥淚t was amazing. We have never looked beyond the shops and have seen Chala as a bazaar period. I never knew there were homes, some of them more than 50 to 60 years old or that so many communities were living there. We came across Maharashtrians, Gujaratis, Konkanis and Tamilians who had been living there for years,鈥?she says, her wide-eyed exploration evident in her words. Over the three weeks that the two spent there, they caught glimpses of the past when they explored through the huge godowns that still exist in the bylanes of the market and the space that used to be earmarked for bullock carts. 鈥淲e walked and explored all the bylanes there. Each took us to new spaces and sights,鈥?she says.

Anjali talks animatedly about the ancient Karupattikada Juma Masjid inside the bazaar that still has not gone for a concrete makeover and the destruction of a century-old house that was located opposite the mosque and how the family, believed to have built the mosque, now lives in a 50-plus-year-old house inside the market. 鈥淥nce you are inside the house, it is hard to believe that there is a bustling market outside,鈥?she says.

Anjali does not hide her disappointment when she talks about the forgotten and dilapidated buildings, some of which they could not enter. 鈥淲e saw a heritage structures inside Chala. In one, there was a joint family while an elderly husband and wife were the only occupants in another. We also interacted with some of the old merchants, craftsmen and tradespeople in the market.鈥?
Nora, says Anjali, focussed on how the market was disappearing right in front of our eyes and how its character as a market place was changing into something else.

Nora鈥檚 and Anjali鈥檚 photographs of life in its various manifestations inside the Chala bazaar will be exhibited in a day-long street exhibition at the entrance of the market (from the East Fort side) on September 27."
"Swathi Nair By

BENGALURU: In an age where Hindustani classical music is taking a back seat to item numbers, EDM and DJ grooves, a duo recently showcased Indian ragas integrating electronic processes.

MD Pallavi and Andi Otto took to stage at Goethe-institut - Max Mueller Bhavan for a live show.

The two developed a concept to integrate the electronic processes applied in the studio seamlessly into a live show.

Andi performed the 鈥榝ello鈥? a sensor for the bow of his cello that measures the movement and acceleration of the bow, as well as the applied finger pressure.

This data is used to control audio software that tweaks the amplified cello sound directly in relation to Andi's hand and arm gestures.

鈥淭he fello helps exploit every aspect of my surroundings to create music. It is like a small ecosphere that is created around that I channel for a musical output,鈥?explains Andi.

Andi developed the 'fello' at STEIM in Amsterdam in 2007, using their junXion software for the data-to-sound mappings.

Pallavi and Andi worked for a month on developing a sensor-based gestural performance for her voice and hand for the show in Bengaluru.

鈥淲e call it the 'second voice'. We attached movement sensors to my hand and to the cello bow, which allows for a unique gestural interaction with electronic sounds produced by the voice and cello. At the end of the month-long lab session, we performed a duo at the Max Mueller Bhavan,鈥?says Pallavi.

鈥淚 used to play the cello, but its sound was confined to the fine tuning of my fingers, breadth of the trumpet player and my muscle memory. This is when I decided to extend this sound beyond its restrictive nature,鈥?says Andi, who lives in Hamburg, Germany.

Having played in Japan, Andi says, 鈥淚 never thought, I'd be performing in Bengaluru some day with Indian ragas. Pallavi put her skills in Hindustani music to use to help us bring together a great ensemble.鈥?
So, why did the two pick Bengaluru for their first experimental show? 鈥淚 am from Bengaluru and it was convenient to do this in my home town. Goethe-institut, Bengaluru supported our project. But apart from that, the city has a thriving music scene and great audiences. We surely hope to come back and do a proper concert tour. Right now, we are excited about the international premiere of our project in Japan. Post that, we hope to perform both in India and Germany,鈥?says Pallavi.

She has been training in Hindustani classical music since she was five years old. First from Pt Ram Rao Naik (of Goa) and then Pt Rajbhau Sontakke (of Benares). Pallavi has also been trained in Sugama Sangeeth (Kannada poetry set to music).

鈥淚n a solo performance project (C sharp C blunt), I worked with Andi where we explored the possibilities that technology offers to an actor on stage. Then one day in Hamburg I saw Andi practising the 'fello'. I immediately expressed a desire to extend this possibility to the voice,鈥?she recalls.

Andi performs 'fello' solo, in duos with DJs or other musicians, and in large productions involving dance choreography.

鈥淎ndi is highly experimental, but delightful too. It allows for expressive playing with the processed sounds of the amplified cello. It is fascinating to see him work. I am looking forward to creating more music with him,鈥?says Pallavi.

BENGALURU: In an age where Hindustani classical music is taking a back seat to item numbers, EDM and DJ grooves, a duo recently showcased Indian ragas integrating electronic processes.MD Pallavi and Andi Otto took to stage at Goethe-institut - Max Mueller Bhavan for a live show.The two developed a concept to integrate the electronic processes applied in the studio seamlessly into a live show. googletag.cmd.push(function() {googletag.display('div-gpt-ad-8052921-2'); });Andi performed the 鈥榝ello鈥? a sensor for the bow of his cello that measures the movement and acceleration of the bow, as well as the applied finger pressure. This data is used to control audio software that tweaks the amplified cello sound directly in relation to Andi's hand and arm gestures. 鈥淭he fello helps exploit every aspect of my surroundings to create music. It is like a small ecosphere that is created around that I channel for a musical output,鈥?explains Andi. Andi developed the 'fello' at STEIM in Amsterdam in 2007, using their junXion software for the data-to-sound mappings. Pallavi and Andi worked for a month on developing a sensor-based gestural performance for her voice and hand for the show in Bengaluru. 鈥淲e call it the 'second voice'. We attached movement sensors to my hand and to the cello bow, which allows for a unique gestural interaction with electronic sounds produced by the voice and cello. At the end of the month-long lab session, we performed a duo at the Max Mueller Bhavan,鈥?says Pallavi.鈥淚 used to play the cello, but its sound was confined to the fine tuning of my fingers, breadth of the trumpet player and my muscle memory. This is when I decided to extend this sound beyond its restrictive nature,鈥?says Andi, who lives in Hamburg, Germany.Having played in Japan, Andi says, 鈥淚 never thought, I'd be performing in Bengaluru some day with Indian ragas. Pallavi put her skills in Hindustani music to use to help us bring together a great ensemble.鈥漇o, why did the two pick Bengaluru for their first experimental show? 鈥淚 am from Bengaluru and it was convenient to do this in my home town. Goethe-institut, Bengaluru supported our project. But apart from that, the city has a thriving music scene and great audiences. We surely hope to come back and do a proper concert tour. Right now, we are excited about the international premiere of our project in Japan. Post that, we hope to perform both in India and Germany,鈥?says Pallavi.She has been training in Hindustani classical music since she was five years old. First from Pt Ram Rao Naik (of Goa) and then Pt Rajbhau Sontakke (of Benares). Pallavi has also been trained in Sugama Sangeeth (Kannada poetry set to music). 鈥淚n a solo performance project (C sharp C blunt), I worked with Andi where we explored the possibilities that technology offers to an actor on stage. Then one day in Hamburg I saw Andi practising the 'fello'. I immediately expressed a desire to extend this possibility to the voice,鈥?she recalls.Andi performs 'fello' solo, in duos with DJs or other musicians, and in large productions involving dance choreography. 鈥淎ndi is highly experimental, but delightful too. It allows for expressive playing with the processed sounds of the amplified cello. It is fascinating to see him work. I am looking forward to creating more music with him,鈥?says Pallavi."
"September 30, 2016 04:56 pm | Updated November 01, 2016 10:02 pm IST - Bengaluru

Ever thought how magical it would be if you could create music out of thin air? What if we could translate all our air guitaring, air drumming and emotional hand gestures into actual sounds? That is the kind of musical magic, Indian singer M. D. Pallavi and German cellist Andi Otto set out to do.

Speaking at the recent preview presentation of their project-in-progress at Goethe-institut, the duo elaborate on how technology and music comes together in their performance concept.

鈥淏y connecting motion sensors to Pallavi鈥檚 hand and my cello鈥檚 bow, we allow a unique gestural interaction with electronic sounds through our expression,鈥?says Andi. Pallavi adds: 鈥淟ike all classical vocalists, I use my right hand to emote. That expression transfers into a voice 鈥?my pre-recorded voice. I give it meaning in my own way by treating my hand as my instrument.鈥?
鈥淚t is not a synthesiser,鈥漵ays Andi. 鈥淚t is her recorded voice sample. Her gesture releases the note. So she continues singing and changes the second voice with a technology that reads the movement of her hand.鈥?
While Andi is a DJ and producer of electronic music in Hamburg, Pallavi is a classical Hindustani vocalist, actor and filmmaker. Having met on a stage in Berlin where they performed the German adaptation of the award-winning Indian play C Sharp C Blunt , their mutual curiosity towards overlapping musical cultures brought them to the studio. And today, they find themselves on the path to a Japan tour in 2017 that will mark the official world premiere of the duo鈥檚 live show.

Andi explains that while he uses a cello with a sensor that measures his gestures and produces data for the computer, 鈥淭he basic idea is that I don鈥檛 have to get up and tweak some knobs, I can actually do the electronics while playing the cello, all the space around the instrument becomes part of it. Pallavi use her voice in a similar way. So we put some of her knowledge of the raga scale into the software. So the two 鈥?my gestural interface and musical experience get together into one product 鈥?a highly unstable prototype,鈥?he laughs, 鈥渨hich we call Second Voice.鈥?
Coming from a classical background, Pallavi says she is experimental by nature. 鈥淭he music that I sing in Kannada is very traditional and conventional. But in theatre, I experiment. We met in one such experiment. Andi鈥檚 music is very unusual. It鈥檚 a sound that is very contemporary. I thought anything can fit into it, like Indian music.鈥?
Andi goes on to say they both have an allergy to putting genres on top of other genres.

鈥淲e don鈥檛 like a clash of cultures. Instead, we synchronise my compositions to her voice. We wanted to weave a fabric where you can鈥檛 tell which is from the German producer and which from the Indian vocalist.鈥?
He adds: I鈥檝e never had anyone with me on stage when I do gestural interface that does the same thing. I鈥檝e performed with drummers and DJs. This is the first time we鈥檙e both doing the same thing and we come from completely different backgrounds. And that makes it so exciting. It鈥檚 really an experiment for both of us.鈥?
Pallavi agrees that it is a lot though. 鈥淚t is extremely complicated. Andi鈥檚 mind is like that. I鈥檓 a singer. So I鈥檓 thinking of swaras and ragas. For him, it is very visual. For me, that was the challenge. While performing, to simultaneously create and express.鈥?
Andi explains that it is not a one-way journey. 鈥淢y cello playing has been hugely influenced this last one month working with Pallavi. There is a different logic to our harmonic system and how we think musically. My acquired playing technique gets applied in radically new ways now.鈥?
This concert, Pallavi says, is the test run. 鈥淚n six months, we perform in Japan. That will be our first proper concert. If the audience can see the scope of this and what possibilities this offers, that鈥檚 more than enough.鈥?
Andi points out that he is never seen anything like this in his life.

鈥淣ever has anyone pushed the boundaries like this. This goes beyond what anyone expects. It even surprises us. We go on stage and improvise in a combination that happens nowhere on the globe today.鈥?
Pallavi affirms: 鈥淕estural movement sensors and electronic music are mostly used to create soundscapes or techno sounds. Very little experimentation has been done exploring the musical aspect of it.鈥?
Our pick of the month,,The Magic of Words"







 panel discussions


"January 19, 2016 12:00 am | Updated September 23, 2016 01:15 am IST

Three years ago dancer, choreographer and scenographer Felix Mathias Ott put in a sterling performance Odyssey Complex , based on the classic myth, as part of the Attakkalari Biennale.

He was back in Bengaluru for a one month residency on invitation by Sandbox Collective, as part of the BangaloREsidency, supported by Max Mueller Bhavan, Goethe-institut. During this time, he met artistes from Bengaluru and Pondicherry, watched all night performances of Theyyam and Therukoothu at Adishakti and shows at Nrityagram, and interacted with dancers there. He also had discussions on the concept of Indian Mythology and how it is similar or different to Greek and Roman mythology.

While he immersed himself in the experiences he encountered, says Nimi Ravindran of Sandbox Collective, which included riding a motorbike on the dirt roads, honking incessantly, and eating sambhar-rice on the pavement.

鈥淗e鈥檚 pretty much done it all,鈥?says Nimi, Felix spoke to people to gain a deeper understanding of Indian mythology. 鈥淚 let people tell me before I start reading. I prefer to get to know mythological stories the oral way.鈥?
Felix worked with three artistes here for two days and presented a glimpse into his idea of Indian myths, to a select group of 20 at Max Mueller Bhavan. He doesn鈥檛 believe in categorising his artistic expression into any particular genre.

鈥淚 am a multi-media artiste. I like to create picturesque, surrealistic theatre.鈥?
Speaking of what attracted him to Odyssey , Felix says: 鈥淭here were a number of reasons. One, I have a personal connection with it. The second is for political reasons. I wanted to include storytelling, because it is important to my artistic language. Contemporary dance doesn鈥檛 tell stories. But I don鈥檛 want to do a retelling. I invent the myth in a contemporary form. Odyssey has been well received because it鈥檚 a universal myth. To create it, I spent two weeks alone. Then it took three steps: I first made a presentation. Then I did another presentation after three weeks of rehearsals and then another after four weeks of rehearsals.鈥?
Felix Ott will collaborate with Sandbox Collective for a performance in 2017."
"January 29, 2016 09:45 pm | Updated September 23, 2016 04:02 am IST

Streets are never mere witness to our lives passing by. Streets speak. They even reach out to us only if we care to look at them. And artists very well know how to lead us there.

Once a platform to register protests, calling out people for rallies, political marches, in a stark contrast, they also came to bear the weight of rising consumerism.

Now some of our artists now are staking a claim to these streets as well. White cube is just not enough for them for they view these open spaces as more effective in initiating a dialogue with all those who don鈥檛 visit art galleries and museums. So, here it is! A street art movement is sweeping the country gradually and steadily.

St+Art Festival, a festival celebrating street art in India, is in its fourth edition. A host of artists from India and abroad are busy giving the city a makeover. Lodhi Colony, a well-known residential area built by the British and home to several central government employees, has been transformed into a public art district.

While someone has found inspiration in Shekhawati, another has given a new interpretation to our national flower. The bureaucratic staidness of these structures gets some verve and warmth by this riot of colours and expressions. Besides Lodhi Colony, another highlight of this year's festival is WIP, Work in Progress where artists are painting on 100 shipping containers at the Inland Container Depot in Tughlakabad.

鈥淗ow many people go to the gallery but everyone walks on these streets, sees them, crosses them. The idea behind this festival is to get people to consider street as a medium to express themselves. We want more and more people to join the movement. We want to take it to the art connoisseurs and beyond,鈥?says Hanif Kureshi, co-founder and artistic director of St+Art Festival, who is himself a street artist.

An absolutely unforgettable gift from this festival to the city has been the mural of Mahatma Gandhi painted by German artist Hendrick Beikrich and Anpu Varkey on the wall of Delhi Police Headquarters at ITO. One of the tallest murals in India, Gandhi was a conscious choice. 鈥淗endrick doesn鈥檛 paint famous people but we requested him to do it because people relate to Gandhi. Gandhi mural was important for us to keep the movement going,鈥?recalls Hanif, who plans to take the festival to Bengaluru soon.

For an agency like police to be keen about having its wall painted, haven鈥檛 we come quite far? The West Bengal Prevention of Defacement of Property Act, 1976 makes graffiti or writing, drawing, painting on public walls an offence in India. It attracts the punishment of arrest and jail for six months/fine of Rs.1000 or both. 鈥淵es, Delhi Police was keen to have the mural and even made us write 鈥楶eer parai jaane re鈥?on it. It had a context. Every police station has a photo of Gandhi. But mind you the government is still allergic to graffiti and as far as support to other forms of street art is concerned, I think they can be much more supportive of it,鈥?feels Hanif.

Helmut Schippert, Director of Goethe-institut Chennai, agrees with Hanif. Instrumental in revving up the street art scene in Chennai, Helmut wonders why authorities remain anxious about it. 鈥淐arrying out these activities as an institution, we need to work with due permissions and I get this feeling that they think it will cause some kind of damage to the property,鈥?says Helmut.

However, Goethe-institut鈥檚 鈥淐onquer The Concrete鈥?stirred up the scene positively. 鈥淚 won鈥檛 say it鈥檚 everywhere now but yes, it鈥檚 a bit more than what it used to be. Earlier the landscape was dominated by paintings and posters of politicians, which once torn used to look very ugly. Now often we see newly painted walls.鈥?He says the murals at crucial sites like MRTS Railway Station, Egmore Station, Central Station clearly set the tone. 鈥淎n American painter came across this lady living on Greenways Road at MRTS station without any roof on her head. She has been living like that for 10 years so he painted her portrait and simply wrote 鈥楲ife鈥?in Tamil. Egmore Station had a very strong impact. It appeared in political pages of newspapers,鈥?he says.

Street art in India is largely shaping up as a tool to spread a social message and it is for this reason the policy makers have endorsed it for. Ullas Hydoor and Poornima Sukumar highlighted the police initiative of encouraging women to report instances of sexual abuse or harassment at Ashok Nagar Police Station in Bengaluru. And now Ullas is doing a similar project for a police station in Pune. It definitely is a relevant communication tool but the artist feels it will take time to be recognised as just art.

鈥淪treet art is not appreciated purely as art. Be it the Ugly Indian, painting flyovers or any other community project is concerned, street art is being used as a practical thing to beautify the space. It really engages people but I think it is first step we need to take to reach the next step where it will considered and respected as an art form,鈥?says Ullas, who along with Baadal Nanjundaswamy is participating at St+Art Festival in Delhi.

New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC), one of the two civic agencies in Delhi, became a perfect partner for Delhi Street Art to bring value to the city. Kicked off in 2013, Delhi Street Art began with turning trash bins in Lodi Gardens into a canvas. Emboldened by the response, the outfit joined hands with the nodal public agency for beautifying Shankar Market in Central Delhi. 鈥淚 think the awareness about street art has really increased, thanks to media attention, social media and changing attitudes. Recently we were painting Uttam Nagar (East) metro station and its surroundings were quite dirty but within three hours the place was transformed. There were so many young artists who came from different parts of the city to paint. Next on our list is a shelter for young girls in Okhla,鈥?says Yogesh Saini, the brain behind the organization, which is now trying to go beyond the Capital. Its members recently painted portraits of national heroes, who hailed from Gujarat, on a flyover in Ahmedabad and has also undertaken activities in Agra and Simla. It even put up a street art festival in Rishikesh. 鈥淪ince it gets a lot of international tourists, we thought of doing it there and local as well as international artists who happened to be there joined the festival. There were artists from Israel, Brazil, Belgium, students from Woodstock painted the area around Lakshman Jhula. We didn鈥檛 know it would turn out to be successful,鈥?says Saini.

In Banaras too, street art is being used for reclaiming and reconnecting with the ancient city. Suresh K.Nair, a professor in the mural section of the department of painting at Banaras Hindu University (BHU) has initiated City Decorative Project (CDR). 鈥淚 had identified 200-300 places in Banaras but till now managed to do 12-13 which comprise schools鈥?walls, hotels鈥?boundary walls. There are no funds, no galleries to support our work so we raise funds through our work for private spaces like hotels and then fund our street art effort. The idea is to clean the place, to beautify it and tell the stories of the place,鈥?says Nair.

Spreading wings

St+Art is back with its fourth edition in Delhi in Delhi till February 16 where it is on till Feb 16 and will soon travel to Bengaluru. Hendrick, who painted the Gandhi mural at ITO, is back this year. He is going to paint a kid's portrait.

The street art movement has gathered steam in Bengaluru. Poornima Sukumar recently kicked off 鈥楢ravani Art project鈥?by bringing artists and members of the transgender community to a wall near K.R. Market.

Baadal Nanjundaswamy has really shaken up the authorities with his life-sized crocodile planted in the middle of a road to draw the attention of the civic authorities to repair a pothole. BBMP took note of it and immediately fixed it.

(See story on how artist Bhuwal Prasad is turning a disused container into a work of art)"
"鈥淚 always agree to talk about my work and then regret it afterwards,鈥?says Delhi-based documentary filmmaker Amar Kanwar, who has put up an exhibition titled 鈥淭he Lightening Testimonies鈥? 鈥淚 think the work should speak for itself,鈥?he adds. Kanwar has created a video installation, with eight projections, which brings together testimonies of women who have been subjected to sexual violence during conflicts 鈥?and the people in his films have plenty to say.

Their experiences take place in different periods of time, across various places in India. Kanwar has included women who accuse the Army of sexual violence in conflict zones of Northeast India and Kashmir, Dalit women who suffer public rape and humiliations, Muslim and Hindu women who were targeted during the 1992-93 Bombay riots and 2002 Gujarat riots. He also includes testimonies from women 鈥渁bducted鈥?during the Partition in 1947 and the mass rape that took place during the Bangladesh War of Independence in 1971.

His treatment of these stories is what makes the exhibition a novel experience. The eight films are projected simultaneously on the four black walls of the room while the viewer sits in the middle, surrounded by them. They all start out with the same scenes but slowly transition into different films. The effect is initially overwhelming while the viewer tries to watch or simply keep track of all the stories, but eventually the realization dawns that each testimony reverberates with the same themes of power (or lack of it), pain, and remembrance.

鈥淥ften, we try and attribute these occasions of sexual violence during conflict to reasons that exist only in a particular time, in specific circumstances, or we just put the blame on temporary bouts of insanity, 鈥?says Kanwar, adding, 鈥淏ut bringing them all together, we see that there are deeper roots. This is a national crisis, because this kind of mass violence has been going on for a long time, and no one is really talking about it鈥?

In his films, Kanwar tries to show that everyone had their own ways of explaining, remembering and archiving. He films some people who didn鈥檛 talk about the sexual act itself but instead kept on referring to a window through which they had seen atrocities; others spoke about an orange tree in Wokha, Nagaland, which 鈥渨itnessed everything the Army had done over a number of days that seemed like years鈥? Some women took the opposite approach and directly addressed the violence they had endured. In Manipur, he filmed a group of women who famously protested naked outside the Assam Rifles unit in Manipur after the rape and murder of Thangjam Manorama. In another incident in the Northeast, a victim鈥檚 mother wove a shawl in her memory, using different colours and designs to symbolise her abduction.

Kanwar, 51, does not have a clear reason behind creating this exhibition, except that the subject of sexual violence touches him deeply. Perhaps, he says, it began with the Gujarat riots in 2002, when he read about sexual attacks taking place in public view with the vocal support of the crowd. He travelled through India, talking to both victims and perpetrators, to try and comprehend how such crimes could occur so blatantly. To help viewers understand the context, Kanwar has displayed twenty reports of sexual violence. These include summaries, newspaper clippings, academic articles and legal reports that visitors can flip through for information.

Kanwar鈥檚 previous work includes the much acclaimed The Sovereign Forest exhibition, which looked at the tribal movements and their struggle against the government and corporations acquiring their land in Odisha. But Kanwar mentions that he would most love to see The Lightening Testimonies coupled with The Torn First Pages, another video installation that he created in 2004, about the oppression of the Burmese military junta.

Advertisement

The Lightening Testimonies is being exhibited at the Goethe-institut, Mumbai, till March 6"
"April 06, 2016 03:34 pm | Updated April 29, 2016 07:07 pm IST - Chennai

Jyoti Dogra went on a Vipasana retreat to Dharamshala. There, while she was listening to the chants of Tibetan monks, she derived inspiration for her solo theatre performance, Notes on Chai. 鈥淚 got interested in conversation as an activity between people. Relationships, I realised, are so basic in everyday life. The idea for the piece started to find life there,鈥?says Dogra.

Her text, she says, is 鈥渕undane conversations between acquaintances. These conversations might start with chai, and then move into other things.鈥?
This experimental piece is a collection of snippets of everyday conversations inter-woven with abstract sound explorations that attempt to relocate our relationship with the quotidian. It explores urban life through everyday conversation, and uses the voice simply as an instrument of sound. 鈥淚t took me about two years to create the piece and I worked a lot on the performance before I opened it. So, the structure is the same, but the nuances within the performance can change.鈥?Now, 45 shows later, including performances at the Morishita Studio in Tokyo, The Arts House i n Singapore and The Tank in New York, she鈥檚 taking the stage in the city to showcase her act.

Notes on Chai, presented by Perch, Creashakti and Stray Factory, will be staged at Goethe-institut Auditorium on April 8 and 9 (7 p.m.). Entry free."
"Watching a film in a village is such a physical experience, says documentary filmmaker Shirley Abraham. 鈥淚n the interval, you peep into the projector鈥檚 shed and ask how much is left. Sitting in the tent you can smell the carbon arc lamp of the projector. hear the whirring, feel the earth under you. Cinema is lived here.鈥?A tent cinema often coincides with religious fairs or jatras, timed to the harvest season. Powered by cinema lorries, each tent can accommodate up to 2,000 people at a time.(AMIT MADHESHIYA)

Or it used to be. Abraham and her colleague Amit Madheshiya are currently in the midst of prepping their documentary, The Cinema Travellers, for its premiere at the Cannes Film Festival on May 15.

The film is about how cable TV and the internet are pushing the once-hugely-popular tambu talkies or pop-up tent cinemas into oblivion. The Cinema Travellers has been selected for premiere in the Cannes Classics selection, dedicated to cinema on cinema.

Amit Madheshiya and Shirley Abraham have dedicated more than eight years to the travelling cinemas of Maharashtra. The Cinema Travellers is their first feature-length documentary. (AALOK SONI/HT)

While Abraham, 33 and a research scholar, has donned the hats of co-director, editor, co-producer and sound recordist, Madheshiya, also 33, and a photographer, acts as co-director, cinematographer, co-producer and editor. The duo dedicated more than five years to the film.

鈥淚n 2006, single-screen theatres suddenly began shutting down in droves in the cities,鈥?says Madheshiya. 鈥淚t moved us to think that these iconic spaces, with all their collective memories, were being razed. And we thought: If this is happening in the cities, what is happening in the villages? This led to our exploration of the decline of travelling cinemas.鈥?
Read: Alternate models of cinema catering to rural and semi-urban audience

Maharashtra was selected as the canvas since it was here that the tambu talkies industry was most organised, and simultaneously most rooted in tradition. They had existed for almost eight decades, preserving a sense of what cinema had first looked like. 鈥淭hese were the only people in the country who were still working only with actual film roll,鈥?says Madheshiya. 鈥淲e also visited rural Bengal, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh but were spellbound by the story of Maharashtra.鈥?
Before the tambu talkies, lavani and tamasha had been the sources of entertainment in this region, and they were meant only for men. 鈥淚t was at the tent cinemas that popped up during religious events and fairs that women would get together for an afternoon of watching mythological features in public,鈥?says Abraham.

As recently as 1991, the Marathi film Maherchi Sadi ran to packed houses throughout the November-to-May post-harvest season. 鈥淭he star, Alka Kubal, was known as the Madhuri Dixit of Marathi cinema,鈥?says Madheshiya. 鈥淯p to 2,000 people would crowd under each tent, watch it and stay for the re-runs, the cinema tent owners say.鈥?
The filmmaking duo first caught up with one of the tambu talkies in 2008. 鈥淲hen we saw them for the first time, they seemed timeless,鈥?says Abraham, of the multi-coloured trucks and tents featuring the faces of the stars. 鈥淭hey were still using little movable projectors. And the people were still coming, but had dwindled to hundreds.鈥?
The duo went back every year for the next six years, and saw how the number of tambu talkies doing the rounds was falling. In 2008, there were 10 per village during the six-month season; by 2009, there were only 3.

Read: On the phenomenon of slum cinemas and discover cinema-maps of Mumbai

鈥淭his documentary is a homage to the 鈥榗inema travellers鈥?-- people who travel in different dimensions, physically and through their imagination,鈥?says Abraham.

The golden age of tent cinema began in the 1940s and ended when the markets were opened up during the liberalisation of the early 1990s.

The Cinema Travellers tracks the change that followed through the failing fortunes of two showmen, one in late 30s and one in his 40s, and a repairman in his late 60s who tends to overused projectors. As their audiences move on, the first showman now sells cold drinks every summer; the second has resigned himself to farming and the repairman had his shop repeatedly broken into by thieves, leaving him with nothing. He is retired.

The spectacular fair converts the remote, sleepy village into a uniquely numinous space. While the tent cinemas transform a small patch of land amidst a clearing, fireworks announce the screenings. (AMIT MADHESHIYA)

The project was supported by the India Foundation for the Arts, Bengaluru; Cluster of Excellence, Heidelberg; and Goethe-institut / Max Mueller Bhavan, New Delhi, and its selection by the Sundance Music and Sound Design Lab in 2015, a residency that mentors filmmakers in storytelling and post-production, led the filmmaker duo to hone what would turn out to be a key aspect of their tale: Sound.

鈥淲e worked on sound in one of the best facilities, Skywalker Sound in California, built by George Lucas [creator of Star Wars],鈥?says Madheshiya. 鈥淚t was there that we decided to use the whirring of the projector, which was a huge part of my experience of the travelling cinemas. By the time we were done, the projector had become like a living organism, almost a character of its own in our film.鈥?
The film also recreates the ambience through sound -- the experience of watching a film in the midst of a village fair, separated from the bustle only by a thin tent. 鈥淲e like to think that, in the end product, you can sense the throng of the fair 鈥榦utside鈥?through various sounds,鈥?Madheshiya says, 鈥?just as you would once have been able to while watching Mithun Chakraborty bash the baddies in the middle of rural Maharashtra.鈥?
Follow @htshowbiz for more.

ott:10:ht-entertainment_listing-desktop"
The brass band broke into frenzy; the team belted an old Tamil hit, and a Bollywood number was remixed instantly. Music turned into noise. The high decibel level made glass crack and the audience plugged their ears in agony. The rhythmic order of a forgotten melody stringed with nostalgia became a chaotic sequence of sounds.The performer will follow impromptu impulses and create beauty from a series of accidents on the spur of the moment. The space that viewers will encounter in the course of three days will never look the same. Processing\Bangalore is a celebration of everyday failure and success, of sense and nonsense, of the never-ending process of life itself. The performance will be complemented by a video installation: Germany. The German artist-duo bosediva is looking for a new mix of the devices of theatre and the visual arts. One of the main subjects of research is the tension between the romantic impulses of narrative in theatre and literature and the supposed purity of the art object as a commodity. bosediva has spent the past seven weeks at 1 Shanthi Road in Bengaluru as guests of the bangaloREsidency of Goethe-institut / Max Mueller Bhavan.Spring blossoms in the big city as trees percolate a variety of colours into the landscape, creating a big contrast to the unbearable heat in the crowded marketplaces and infuriating traffic jams that are also as much a part of Bengaluru 鈥?the big city. bosediva uses Bengaluru as their muse, choosing objects and materials found through out the city for form, colour and function; objects such as plastic scrubbers, coconut scrapers and statues of Indian gods are exposed along with other hopelessly useless items that are so intrinsically Indian that it creates intrigue despite their insignificance. Be open to the unholy marriage of the visuals and the performance. This is the expectation.There was no reasoning but only intention. The randomness of the process was also open to improvisation while intent was balanced by acts that were unexpected. Chance encounters with the materials and objects on display created chemical reactions and movements of the body - the bodies of Robin Detje and Elisa Duca. This duo is the ying yang of this open-ended act, a controlled yet chaotic stream of actions of making and breaking.Elisa moved around the studio/gallery arranging materials and performing the actions of the process rather than creating an end product. It was 鈥淟ila鈥?鈥?a play 鈥?larger than life. The actions with matter created a series of gestures like the cosmic dance of Shiva that illustrates the creation and destruction of life. These actions piled up on the floor like a messy aftermath of an explosion. The studio became an alchemist鈥檚 laboratory, an experimental kitchen, and an arena for an absurd and unscripted play. This cyclic action is open to interpretation as a multimedia performance.The enthusiastic director Christoph Bertrams and his team conceptualise the bangaloREsidency programme. It has been conceived as a long-term collaboration between the Goethe-institut / Max Mueller Bhavan and various innovative and discerning contemporary art/cultural spaces and partners in Bengaluru, with a view to offering German aspirants a space conducive to creative output and the opportunity to interact with Indian artists/experts, in the challenging context of Asia鈥檚 fastest-growing metropolis. The bangaloREsidencies are designed to involve mutual exchange so that both the visiting Germans and the local community reap the benefit of fresh perspectives and expanding horizons.The energy of the couple was amazing; they worked together against all odds as chaos thrived, creating movements that were nonlinear and unpredictable. The unexpected was expected. The act was like a fractal-never-ending infinite pattern, a dynamic system. Chaos became essential to explore the unlimited possibilities of creative actions and reactions. Revel in the Chaos. Revel in bosediva.How do we make sense of performance art today? In the contemporary Indian art context, performance art has to deal with the history of traditional theatre. The spectacle of street and the narrative tradition of visual art, drama and film can connect this performance to the Indian context. The most prolific and intense Indian performance artist is Nikhil Chopra who has been the most visible and articulate in his work. Nikhil Chopra鈥檚 artistic practice ranges between live art, theatre, painting, photography, sculpture and installations. His performances are a series of improvisations, dealing with identity, autobiography, and the representation of self-portraiture.His works are a continuous process of transformations of the self and location. Chopra fuses everyday reality with the history of space; he enacts daily chores with drawing and making clothes. His performances dramatically enact the ritual of a lived reality.鈥淎s a performer, whose practice emerges from the visual arts, every site offers a range of possibilities in terms of content, material, backdrops, contexts and audiences. That these are variable and subjective in their essence, to time, place and history, lend to each performance an immediacy that cannot be accessed in rehearsed acts. In other words, the work is site-specific. City lights, architecture and landscape, the weather, the commotion and chaos of contemporary metropolitan life, evidence of mental and physical stress, articulations of cultural collective histories and memories, all come together in the gestalt that creates the performative space. My performances may be seen as a form of storytelling that intermingles familial histories, personal narrative and everyday life. The process of performing is a means to access, excavate, extract and present them. Autobiography is one place I know where to begin from. All urgencies, desires, knowledge, emotions, expressions, stem from that place that I am rooted in. My sense of identity is deeply connected to my sense of location in time and space, 鈥?he says.
"Success is the stuff of dreams, aspirations, fantasies. Often hard-won, at times a mere flick of fate. It has an aura, a sheen. It can be a meteoric rise to stardom, a legendary rags-to-riches.

Success is the stuff of dreams, aspirations, fantasies. Often hard-won, at times a mere flick of fate. It has an aura, a sheen. It can be a meteoric rise to stardom, a legendary rags-to-riches. A strange and heady mix of sweat, grit, kismet, talent, dreams and daring. But it鈥檚 also a tricky element in the dynamics of human relationships. And many a marriage has struggled and splintered when the scales of success have tipped more generously in favour of one of the partners.

Traditionally, the wife has always been known to be the supportive presence behind a successful man. But in modern times, there are also wives who are more successful, celebrated, recognised and popular than their husbands. And it takes a very special man with a broad mindset to take pride in his wife being more successful than him, instead of letting ego come in the way and feeling piqued at walking a few steps behind her.

There are some who have got that right. And for those couples, it is love, and not success, that trumps all else.

Stars and the spotlight For stars, the center stage and spotlight are measures of success. The red carpet was the stage for a little spot of drama recently, when Abhishek Bachchan walked off, apparently in a huff, while being photographed with wife Aishwarya at the premiere of her movie Sarbjit. He was reportedly irritated at the photographers for focusing primarily on Ash and sidelining him. He strode away even as she struggled to compose her shocked expression. The pictures went viral and sparked a flurry of speculations and stories about their marriage being on the rocks, attributing that to Abhishek being insecure of Aishwarya鈥檚 stardom. An Abhimaan moment, the episode got labelled. But the couple quashed the rumours when soon after they were photographed on a late-night romantic drive.

A friend of the couple brushed off the awkward moment as: 鈥淛ust a normal miyan-biwi tiff, a bad moment between the two caught on camera. Are they not human Can鈥檛 they have unguarded moments in public 鈥?
And Abhishek put the lid on all speculation by reiterating his pride in his wife鈥檚 talent and achievements, 鈥淚 am sorry to disappoint those looking for a scandal here. But we are very happily married and we intend to remain that way. I am very proud of my wife and all her achievements.鈥?
A strong friendship Prof Pritimoy Bhattacharyya may not always be seen by the side of his high profile better half, chairperson of the country鈥檚 largest lender, SBI, Arundhati Bhattacharya, but the two always feel they are close to each other. 鈥淭hat鈥檚 because more than being husband and wife, we are very good friends. We plan and share everything. We share our joys and excitements, we share our worries and agonies, we share our professional challenges we share everything. We discuss and analyse various personal and professional situations and then discuss strategies together. Both of us love our work but more imporantly, we love and respect each other鈥檚 work,鈥?says Bhattacharyya, former professor at Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur (IIT-K).

Bhattacharyya is currently associated with Techno Group and Techno University in Kolkata, Kaziranga University in Assam, Raffles University in Rajasthan in the capacity of advisor and visiting faculty.

鈥淏oth of us are very busy and constantly on the move. Our contact time may be very less, but whenever we get time to be together, we enjoy it to the hilt. Arundhati, our daughter and I enjoy dining out, watching movies, theatre, cultural programmes. We also make it a point to take family trips at least twice a year and visit close relatives together, regularly. When we are together we enjoy the small pleasures of life,鈥?says the low-key husband of the SBI chairperson.

The IIT alumnus and ex-professor of IIT has no complaints or regrets. 鈥淭he most important things that keep us ticking is a strong bond, strong friendship and great understanding. I can understand that she cannot give as much time to our daughter as she would or our daughter would love to. I try to make up for that as much as I can,鈥?says the soft-spoken Bhattacharyya.

Upbringing and values Upbringing and values inculcated in childhood often determine whether a man celebrates his wife鈥檚 achievements or feels threatened by them. For Sangita Reddy, Joint Managing Director, Apollo Hospitals, her husband is one of the strongest supportive pillars in her life.

鈥淢y husband, Konda Vishweshwar Reddy, has a bold frame of mind and he comes from a family where his sisters are highly educated and professional. He is used to being with working women in the family,鈥?she says, adding, 鈥淗e has also assisted me in my success as he has an IT background and has helped me in steering the IT initiatives in Apollo. Further, he has been accommodative of my travel schedules. He is a very confident person and in no way insecure about himself. Currently he is a Member of Parliament representing Telengana Rashtra Samiti from Chevella in Telengana and is more popular than me. Even in the early days, he was self-confident and self-assured. Part of it also comes from our understanding of each other.鈥?
Partners at work The bold, beautiful and sexy Sunny Leone is a symbol of desire and fantasy. And her husband and business partner Daniel Weber easily shares her moment of glory, though not all men would be comfortable doing so. 鈥淚 am proud of all of her achievements as we have built this brand together. Sunny Leone is a brand to us as Karenjit is my wife. Together we work hard and build it. It鈥檚 not a matter of comfort. It鈥檚 a matter of success,鈥?says Daniel.

He doesn鈥檛 mind the spotlight focusing squarely on her. 鈥淪he should enjoy the limelight as she is the one who is in front of the camera. She is who her fans want to see. I am proud of the business we built and enjoy watching her fans respond so well.鈥?
Being her business manager and co-owner of their ventures, he handles her professional assignments also. But when asked if he attributes Sunny鈥檚 success to his being there for her always, he brushes it off good-humouredly and says, 鈥淚鈥檓 just doing the best I can at all times.鈥?
Rock steady home front Trisha Bansal, wife of Binny Bansal, co-founder and CEO of Flipkart, who was recently voted the most successful entrepreneur by Forbes, plays the perfect role of a wife behind the scenes, and has her hands full managing a young marriage and life with a husband who leads a hectic lifestyle and is always travelling on work. 鈥淐ontrary to popular belief, being the wife of a successful man is hard work. There are early mornings, late nights and working weekends which take a toll on Binny鈥檚 health. I ensure the house functions seamlessly,鈥?says the young and beautiful Trisha, adding, 鈥淚 also ensure he eats healthy and exercises at least thrice a week. Since Binny has to travel a lot on work, I鈥檓 not the types to crib and complain. I feel if I鈥檓 stressed out, it could pass on to him too. That鈥檚 why I like to keep myself occupied learning new skills and honing my hobbies instead of indulging in kitty parties and random lunch and dinner parties. I completed a course in German language from Goethe-institut Max Mueller Bhavan. I鈥檓 also a fitness freak and a regular at Pilates classes. He鈥檚 a caring husband and I couldn鈥檛 have asked for anything more.鈥?
Balance is the key Madhu Neotia isn鈥檛 just the wife of Harsh Neotia, chairman, Ambuja Neotia Group and national president, FICCI), but has also carved a niche of her own in the world of arts. The key to getting it right, she feels, is maintaining a work-life balance. 鈥淲hile Harsh has been literally living out of a suitcase this year due to his FICCI engagements, he has always been very busy with work. I have loved to play my part as the Chairperson of Indian Institute of Crafts and Design, Jaipur, Initiator of the India Story last year and as the Managing Trustee of the Neotia Arts Trust. I have also enjoyed contributing to our family business as an advisor in the areas of health and hospitality.鈥?About how they strike a work-life balance, she says, 鈥淲e try to make the most of whatever time we get together. We give a lot of space to each other and extend support silently. And travelling together gives us quality time.鈥?Success is not an element of contention if both partners take pride in each other鈥檚 work. Says Madhu, 鈥淚 respect my husband鈥檚 dedication to his work and his sense of aesthetics and creativity. He is a pillar of support to my endeavours and I presume quite enjoys seeing me contribute to the promotion of arts.鈥?
Absence of ego Industrialist Sethu Vaidyanathan, who is married to Priya Paul of Apeejay Industries, agrees that Indian men are not as supportive of their partners as western men are. 鈥淚t has a lot to do with upbringing. I am shocked at the way men behave with their wives. I come from a Palghat family, which is a matriarchal society. I never saw my dad ever say No to my mother and that is ingrained in me. I also believe that everybody is equal. So as a rule, before I make any major decision, I run it past my mum, sister and wife. There should be a complete absence of ego in marriage. When we got married, Priya relocated to Chennai from Delhi like any other married woman. In fact, when my son was born we shuttled between Delhi and Chennai and he went to two schools. But when he reached kindergarten, we had to take a decision and I opted for Delhi. I realised my wife had so much work in Delhi but she had not brought it to my attention.鈥?
鈥淭he reason why our marriage works so well is we both married late, our careers were on track and there is no ego,鈥?he says, adding, 鈥淚f you ask me, the secret behind our successful marriage is we are complete opposites and that really works for us.鈥?
Two-getherness Bio tech queen Kiran Mazumdar is the Chairman and MD of Biocon Industries while her husband John Shaw is the VC of the same company.

But the bond they share is best summed up through this quote, 鈥淚t is nice having a wife who is so well known, it gets you through airports quicker, but really it doesn鈥檛 influence things between us as a couple.鈥?Kiran has openly referred to him as her 鈥榞reatest sounding board鈥?

Dr Sriram Nene, a cardiac surgeon in America, relocated to Mumbai with his wife Madhuri Dixit who plunged into the second innings of her career. When quizzed about his wife being the more famous personality, the cardiac surgeon quipped, 鈥淚 know who I am and she knows who I am. I鈥檓 very proud of her. We are both successful people and very comfortable with that fact. I think you鈥檙e partners in a marriage and you have to behave like that, so as long as you respect each other鈥檚 achievements, it鈥檚 fine.鈥?
Shirish Kunder is a film editor, who married director Farah Khan. The couple, who have triplets, seem to have struck a fine balance in their married life. Shirish, who is often dismissed as 鈥渏ust Farah鈥檚 husband鈥? calmly stated in an interview, 鈥淚 married someone eight years older. She was at the peak of her career. There will come a time I will be better.鈥?
Inputs by Nayare Ali, Subhash K. Jha, Sangeetha G., Ritwik Mukherjee, Namita Gupta, Lipika Varma"
"December 31, 2015 05:57 pm | Updated March 24, 2016 12:56 pm IST

When we asked the classical musician with rock-star appeal, Ustad Zakir Hussain, how he makes his music so provocative and thrilling, he laughed as he ran his fingers through his thinning but famous mop of curls. Picking up the tabla, he said, 鈥淭his looks small but it has enough space to hold rhythm ideas that can last another century.鈥?
He was in Chennai recently for a concert, and was trying to make himself heard over the buzz of selfie-obsessed fans and autograph-hunters forming an impenetrable ring around him. In his characteristic nonchalant manner he said, 鈥淐all me what you want to, showman, global collaborator, modernist, cross-genre musician. But I know for sure I am a hard-core classicist. This ancient genre is so adaptable, flexible that composers and musicians are constantly inspired to either rework their music along its rules or simply walk down its well-treaded path.鈥?
If you had even remotely begun to believe the doomsday prophets about the death of the classical, you should have been at The Music Academy last Sunday to dust your clapometer and prove them wrong. 鈥楬ouseful鈥?boards seen usually at theatres playing Rajanikanth films would not have been out of place outside the auditorium. Inside, Sangita Kalanidhi Sanjay Subrahmanyan was not just flanked by his accompanists on stage but a crowd of rasikas who wanted to get up close and personal with their idol and his music.

The hall seemed to struggle for breath as extra chairs were laid out in every available nook and cranny for the huge turn-out that evening. Listeners queued up more than an hour before the concert. Whether eight or 80, everyone sat in rapt attention, even through the thani, till the last note was rendered.

Classical music now thrives in an eclectic and pluralist culture. It has taken its place gracefully in these times and is a significant part of the current choice. It has drawn liberally from varied reservoirs that reach far beyond sniffy cultural snobs. In fact, this shift has seen some classical musicians, including veterans such as mridangam aces Guru Karaikudi Mani and Umayalpuram Sivaraman, forming bands whose intent is to find unique resonances to swaras and talas. The latest entrant being, the Kanjira Quartet, who featured prominently in 2015鈥檚 Margazhi line-up.

The strength of the classical has ensured that progressive bands such as Agam and Filter Coffee work their repertoires around ragas and traditional compositions. In its October show in the city, Agam even shared stage with senior Carnatic vocalist Aruna Sairam and had the audience of appreciative elders and swinging youngsters literally eating out of its hand. Lead vocalist Harish casually walked around the stage, sometimes shaking a leg to intense alapanas and swaraprastharas. Agam鈥檚 playlist includes 鈥楽wans of Saraswati鈥? a contemporary rendition of a Thyagaraja composition in raga Hamsanadham and a Dhanashree tillana.

鈥淐lassical music is no longer the pompous art of the past,鈥?says flautist Shriram Sampath of Filter Coffee, whose speciality is a thick brew of Hindustani and Carnatic notes. 鈥淎ctually, classical is more progressive because rock and pop remain in status quo with their templated sound,鈥?says Shriram, a sishya of Ronu Majumdar, who left the listeners asking for more at his Goethe-institut gig last August.

Bollywood tunes may have been an easy way to scale up the musical charts but it is in bandhish, tarana and thumri that Shafqat Amanat Ali finds sukoon or solace. His live acts around the world, including the one in Chennai in November, and sell-out independent numbers have a rich classical flavour. 鈥淭hough I have moved into an unfettered and innovative soundscape, my Patiala gharana roots will make its presence felt in whatever I do,鈥?says the Lahore-born singer. He received the loudest cheers at his performance here, when he went on swara trips, embellishing even the Farida Khanum ghazal, 鈥楢aj jaane ki zid na karo鈥?with alaap and taans.

When it was time to don his family鈥檚 famed musical mantle, Hidayat Khan, son of sitar maestro Ustad Vilayat Khan, felt stifled and protested vehemently. 鈥淚 almost cut myself off from the world of classical music to find my identity,鈥?says the sitarist, 鈥渂ut after straying for a while into unknown territories, I realised it鈥檚 classical that can lend credibility to my creative exercises. And I decided to get behind the sitar, as my late father would have wished.鈥?At a concert in the Grand Chola last year, he came up with a repertoire that beautifully meshed with Utsav Lal鈥檚 inventive piano.

N. Ravikiran鈥檚 chitravina, which has consistently wowed world audiences, is a repository of chaste Carnatic notes. But in an unusual concert on November 8, Ravikiran teamed with the Wisconsin Chamber Orchestra to perform Muthuswami Dikshitar and Beethoven compositions. In fact, the city of Madison even declared a Melharmony (a term coined by Ravikiran) Day to celebrate the combination of the Carnatic and Western melodic structures.

The demise of classical music has been predicted for many years now, but if last year was any indication, we can confidently say that 2016 will continue to see classical musicians firmly cement their place in audience hearts."
"KOLKATA: The recent controversy over stalling the screening of Jul Mukherjee's `Jai Shree Ram' (`JSR') in Behrampore due to the absence of a censor certificate has opened up a Pandora's box.Sources at the Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC) insist that according to the rules of the Cinematograph Act, 1952, any film show meant for people outside the production team requires a censor certificate. While `JSR' faced the brunt on Sunday , Bengal continues to host a lot of screenings of uncertified films, since there's little clarity over the rule.Rule 4 of the act states: 鈥淎ny person desiring to exhibit any film shall in the prescribed manner make an application to the Board for a certificate in respect thereof, and the Board may , after examining or having the film examined in the prescribed manner: (i) sanction the film for unrestricted public exhibition (ii) sanction the film for public exhibition restricted to adults.鈥淎nurag Srivastav, CEO of CBFC, said: 鈥淚f the venue is a public place, a censor certificate is mandatory .鈥?But what about a film school or cultural centre? 鈥?A censor certificate is still required. Unless an exemption is sought rom the I&B ministry , all films need to have censor certificates for screening at film festivals,鈥?Srivastav added.Director Ashok Pandit, a member of CBFC, said: 鈥淪ome years back, I had myself got the screening of Sanjay Kak's film `Jashn-e-Aazadi' stalled at Prithvi Theatres because it didn't have a censor certificate. It is a criminal of fence to screen movies without the certificate. If it is a trial show meant only for the film's unit, the certification isn't mandatory . But certification is a must if it is for public viewing.鈥淣ot everyone in Kolkata, however, is aware of this rule. Mukherjee is one of them. 鈥淏ut even if I knew about the rule, I would still go ahead with the same process of screening of `Jai Shree Ram'. No one can regulate what I am going to watch on the terrace of my friend's house,鈥?the director said.Director Q, who has had numerous public screenings of his documentaries, had procured censorship certificates for them before screening those.Describing this rule as 鈥渄raconian鈥?and 鈥渇ascist鈥? he said: 鈥淚f it (the rule) exists, we must all protest.鈥淒irector Amitabh Chakravarty had three public screenings in the state of his uncertified film `Cosmic Sex'.鈥淐ertification issues were taken care of by the organisers of the screenings.While this rule is new to me, I still feel we need to do away with such norms because they smack of an attempt to regulate individual and independent voi ces,鈥?Chakravarty said.Madhuja Mukherjee, head of the department of film studies, Jadavpur University , said her department didn't have much scope of screening films by contemporary directors. 鈥淯nlike Satyajit Ray Film and Television Institute, we primarily have screenings connected to the curricula. We don't insist on a censor certificate. If someone is reading a paper on pornography , he or she may show clips from an uncensored film. We are not ideologically against screening of films without a censor certificate. But we have not had any such screenings.鈥淪armistha Sarkar, programme officer, Goethe-institut, Max Mueller Bhawan, Kolkata, said: 鈥淲e are a neutral platform promoting German culture in India. We don't need a censorship certificate as such. We need to have a no-objection certificate from the director and producer for the screening....It depends on what we are screening in Kolkata. We have a look at the content and also respect artistic creativity and freedom of expression of the artist or the filmmaker.鈥?
The year of Marsala,2015-02-13 11:28:47+00:00,February 13"

 an Italian town located in the westernmost part of Sicily

 has announced the Colour of 2015 鈥?Marsala 鈥?a naturally robust and earthy wine red. This full-bodied reddish brown (or brownish red) hue is impactful and seductive


 while its red-brown roots radiate a sophisticated

鈥?she said.



 camel



 well

 or as a tabletop colour (linen
"Rahul Sadhu By

There鈥檚 never a dull moment in Chennai鈥檚 cultural carousel. The Goethe-institut Chennai recently concluded the street art festival, 鈥楥onquer the Concrete鈥? by roping in artists from India and abroad, adding more colour to it. Chennai now has its own private art collection of sorts on the walls that have long been smeared with political and cinema posters. The vibrant street art on the city鈥檚 walls has made it more lively and dynamic.

Among the artists who contributed to this unique project is Lars Niepuhr from Berlin who calls himself Base 23. He draws his inspiration from a wide array of sources such as the psychedelic art of the 1960s to the underground comics from the 1970s. Combining these influences into his unique graphic style, Base 23 displays his passion for detail in large murals as well as on canvas. Vibrant colours are an important aspect of his work. Painting at the Egmore Railway station, he says, 鈥淚t is special to paint a station. There is a colourful chaos involved. It has a very positive effect. The environment (at such a site) can be made more vibrant and not (be) simply filled with commercial advertisements,鈥?he adds.

鈥淪treet art is a democratic art form which is still rare in Chennai,鈥?says Georg Zolchow, the curator of the project. Currently residing in Madrid, Zolchow is an artist. The concrete walls were painted by artists from across the globe. 鈥淭he aim behind the project was only to portray urban development and its associated challenges in Chennai but also to focus upon the need for public participation,鈥?he adds. In short, 鈥榓rt鈥?will be used as a way to establish vibrant communities- thereby bringing creative vision and aesthetic potential to everyday life in the city.

The 18-day project was held with support from Chennai Corporation and Southern Railways among other collaborators. Viewers got an insight on what street art is and can be. Some of the artists who used their spray cans and brushes across the city are Anpu Varkey from New Delhi, Amitabh Kumar from Bengaluru, foreign artists Axel Void from Miami and Okuda from Madrid among others.

Among the young minds taking up the art form is 25-year-old Shilo Shiv Suleman. She is involved in setting up community art projects and groups that not only get people to appreciate and create street art in their surroundings, but also use it to bring socially relevant issues in India to the forefront. She also manages Fearless, a community of artists, activists, photographers and filmmakers who use art to speak out against gender violence as an attempt to redefine fear, feminism and what it means to be fearless. The group came up after the December 2012 Delhi gang rape case. Travelling across the country, Suleman works with women communities and local artists to collaborate on murals together which spin out their own tales. For example, during the Kumbh Mela, where the number of women tend to be few, she painted on the theme of reclaiming feminine divinity.

The motive is to initiate a dialogue among the viewers. However, the artist warns that she has to be careful about what she is writing, as it always opens up a deeper conversation among the viewers. In Chennai, after watching several Tamil films, Suleman has decided to focus on the theme of women鈥檚 portrayal on-screen. 鈥淕ender and consent in Tamil cinema will be the main theme behind my works. (I will focus on) how the gender dynamic plays out,鈥?she adds. Meanwhile, as she continues to work in Chennai, she will be collaborating with one of the hoarding painters, MP Dakshna. MP Dakshana has been in the business of painting hoardings since 1989 and is among Chennai鈥檚 most talented and successful artists. Well-versed in the art of making huge hand painted cutouts, he is renowned for his dramatic use of colour and state-of the-art compositional skills. Dakshana believes that his own art will be taking a new turn in the collaboration with artists from USA, Germany and Spain. This collaboration of hoarding painters and European artists also saw college students take to painting the city walls on themes such as role of women in the city, maps of Chennai, kolams and buses on the walls at bus stops.

There鈥檚 never a dull moment in Chennai鈥檚 cultural carousel. The Goethe-institut Chennai recently concluded the street art festival, 鈥楥onquer the Concrete鈥? by roping in artists from India and abroad, adding more colour to it. Chennai now has its own private art collection of sorts on the walls that have long been smeared with political and cinema posters. The vibrant street art on the city鈥檚 walls has made it more lively and dynamic.Among the artists who contributed to this unique project is Lars Niepuhr from Berlin who calls himself Base 23. He draws his inspiration from a wide array of sources such as the psychedelic art of the 1960s to the underground comics from the 1970s. Combining these influences into his unique graphic style, Base 23 displays his passion for detail in large murals as well as on canvas. Vibrant colours are an important aspect of his work. Painting at the Egmore Railway station, he says, 鈥淚t is special to paint a station. There is a colourful chaos involved. It has a very positive effect. The environment (at such a site) can be made more vibrant and not (be) simply filled with commercial advertisements,鈥?he adds.鈥淪treet art is a democratic art form which is still rare in Chennai,鈥?says Georg Zolchow, the curator of the project. Currently residing in Madrid, Zolchow is an artist. The concrete walls were painted by artists from across the globe. 鈥淭he aim behind the project was only to portray urban development and its associated challenges in Chennai but also to focus upon the need for public participation,鈥?he adds. In short, 鈥榓rt鈥?will be used as a way to establish vibrant communities- thereby bringing creative vision and aesthetic potential to everyday life in the city.googletag.cmd.push(function() {googletag.display('div-gpt-ad-8052921-2'); });The 18-day project was held with support from Chennai Corporation and Southern Railways among other collaborators. Viewers got an insight on what street art is and can be. Some of the artists who used their spray cans and brushes across the city are Anpu Varkey from New Delhi, Amitabh Kumar from Bengaluru, foreign artists Axel Void from Miami and Okuda from Madrid among others.Among the young minds taking up the art form is 25-year-old Shilo Shiv Suleman. She is involved in setting up community art projects and groups that not only get people to appreciate and create street art in their surroundings, but also use it to bring socially relevant issues in India to the forefront. She also manages Fearless, a community of artists, activists, photographers and filmmakers who use art to speak out against gender violence as an attempt to redefine fear, feminism and what it means to be fearless. The group came up after the December 2012 Delhi gang rape case. Travelling across the country, Suleman works with women communities and local artists to collaborate on murals together which spin out their own tales. For example, during the Kumbh Mela, where the number of women tend to be few, she painted on the theme of reclaiming feminine divinity.The motive is to initiate a dialogue among the viewers. However, the artist warns that she has to be careful about what she is writing, as it always opens up a deeper conversation among the viewers. In Chennai, after watching several Tamil films, Suleman has decided to focus on the theme of women鈥檚 portrayal on-screen. 鈥淕ender and consent in Tamil cinema will be the main theme behind my works. (I will focus on) how the gender dynamic plays out,鈥?she adds. Meanwhile, as she continues to work in Chennai, she will be collaborating with one of the hoarding painters, MP Dakshna. MP Dakshana has been in the business of painting hoardings since 1989 and is among Chennai鈥檚 most talented and successful artists. Well-versed in the art of making huge hand painted cutouts, he is renowned for his dramatic use of colour and state-of the-art compositional skills. Dakshana believes that his own art will be taking a new turn in the collaboration with artists from USA, Germany and Spain. This collaboration of hoarding painters and European artists also saw college students take to painting the city walls on themes such as role of women in the city, maps of Chennai, kolams and buses on the walls at bus stops."
"August 26, 2014 06:51 pm | Updated 06:53 pm IST

If you've been to Greece, you would not have missed the Temple of Hephaestus in central Athens. It's said to be the best-preserved ancient Greek temple in the world. It is also called Theseum (Theseus) because in those Byzantine times people (wrongly) believed the bones of the legendary Greek hero Theseus were buried here. Some 170 years ago, the architect who built the large hall attached to Pachaiyappa's College Higher Secondary School on NSC Bose Road, chose to design it on the lines of the Temple of Theseus- maybe as a tribute to its stately structure.

From across the busy road, you can see it rising majestically above the humdrum business outlets on either side. Once near, you will likely miss it. The entrance is narrow, and is lost in the commercial chaos the road is famous for. Find the board that announces the school, and look up to admire the tall Doric columns and the word 鈥楶achaiappan鈥?prominently embossed on the tympanum. The word is in Tamil - and this was the first school established by the British to teach English to the 鈥渘atives.鈥?
The school is the first example of an enterprising Indian's wealth being used for mass education. 鈥淧achaiappan鈥?is Pachaiappa Mudaliar, who, born in 1754, rose from poverty to become a 鈥渄ubash鈥?(translator) and later loan arranger, revenue collector, Dewan of Tanjore and a very wealthy man. He had a disappointing personal life, and that perhaps made him will his large property to charities to benefit society. The money was embezzled, but George Norton in the Advocate-General's office recovered much of it and prepared a scheme to allot funds for educational institutions. The Lord Elphinstone government made it legal and a Hindu trust was formed to carry out the true intent of Pachaiappa Mudaliar's will.

A school 鈥?Pachaiappa's Central Institution 鈥?opened in January 1842 in Chennai. Its purpose was to teach English to the 鈥減oorer classes of the Hindu community鈥?along with Tamil and Telugu. The school flourished and on October 2, 1846, a group of distinguished locals watched George Norton lay the foundation stone for the present 鈥淭emple鈥? They returned to applaud Sir Henry Forttinger when he opened the school on March 20, 1850.

The school has crossed many milestones. In 1865, the junior department became Govindu Naicker's Primary School. The high school under Basil Lovery, the first principal, did very well in academics and sports, and began to win praise as the 鈥渂est Hindu School鈥?from DPIs, especially E. B. Powell, pioneer of western education in south India. In 1880, under Principal D. M. Cruckshank, its status was raised to Second-Grade College and, in 1889, under John Adam, to First-Grade. Pachaiappa's College joined Madras University in 1923, and the inclusion of Honours courses placed it on a par with other well-known colleges.

Meanwhile, F. W. Thomas, Collector of Chennai, secured the maidan opposite on lease from the government to be used as a playground for the college-school. The school celebrated its first centenary in 1942, became a Higher Secondary in 1979, and hit its150th year in 1994. Chennai owes a lot to this institution for its 鈥渟pread of enlightenment鈥?where Sanskrit was a 鈥渞eading language鈥?till 1911.

It is hard to accept the condition in which the school finds itself today. Most of the original structures are in shape 鈥?the strong wooden stairs, the beautifully ornamented pillars, the Madras terrace, Burmese-teak reapers, the walkways between blocks, and the large breezy rooms that need no lights, ACs or fans. 鈥淐an't poke a nail into the solid walls,鈥?say teachers. But the window panes are missing, the masonry is crumbling, and the quadrangle where prayers are held needs sprucing up. 鈥淥ur staffroom faces the Bay of Bengal and, therefore, there is adequate light and air,鈥?says K. Sundar, HM-in-charge. 鈥淭he hall, an annexe to the school, which can seat 1000-plus people, once saw Mahatma Gandhi and Vivekananda give inspirational speeches.鈥?Sports are the high point of the school. Student Ajit Kumar won four events and the championship in the 2014-15 zonal meet, and will participate in the district-level competition. 鈥淥ur tradition of cultural values and academics is famous,鈥?said teacher J. Venkateswaran, 鈥淎nnadurai studied in the college before it was shifted.鈥?
I come away thinking of the care taken to build the strong edifice and students who take a bus/train from Royapuram, Thiruvottiyur, Ponneri, Ambattur, Avadi, Thirunindravur, Urapakkam, Tambaram, Velachery and Adyar to study here and play on the grounds. With repairs, this historic school will continue to play its educational part in Chennai for perhaps another 200 years."
"February 07, 2014 04:15 pm | Updated May 18, 2016 06:42 am IST

Glass seems to be the material a la mode now. We see it in facades and floors, as furniture and fixtures, as building material and as d茅cor. We even retrofit ancient buildings with glass. But is glass really the right choice for our tropical city?

Glass traps solar heat and warms up the building鈥檚 interiors, which is why this gleaming material is favoured in cold places. In recent times though, sunny urban India has taken to a widespread and indiscriminate use of glass. This has raised energy challenges because of the acquired heat gain within the building, while the glassy building itself becomes a virtual heat island in the area. On the other hand, if judiciously used, glass does have its uses.

It looks good, gives great views, lets in plenty of sunlight, and seems handy to fit. So, when we opt for glass, we need to make an extremely well-informed and calculated choice that considers the building鈥檚 location, orientation and user needs, rather than just style.

How to

Though there are some glass varieties that give better heat insulation than others, glass usually traps more heat than masonry or brick. 鈥淢indless use of glass is like creating a problem that you have to struggle to solve,鈥?says architect Pradeep Verma.

He suggests that in Indian cities, in the context of sunlight received, we must minimise the use of glass on western and eastern building faces, which get the brunt of the heat.

鈥淲e could increase the area of glass used on a building鈥檚 northern face, and to a smaller degree on the south,鈥?he says. Architect Ponni Concessao offers another solution: 鈥淭he outer envelope and perimeter walls of the building should have more masonry, with punched glazed windows. The walls overlooking internal courtyards and partition walls can be 100 per cent glazed glass.鈥?
What to use

Opt for high performance glasses that have a special coating to reduce heat transmission, such as double- and triple-glazed glass 鈥?layers of glass with insulating gaps in between.

鈥淭hese reduce the heat intake into the building by one half or a quarter, compared to plain float glass. But they are also four-ten times more expensive,鈥?says Verma. Concessao says that glass is more expensive than brick per sq. ft, but installation is faster and cleaner.

鈥淭here are savings in project cost and time frame.鈥?But in terms of embedded energy, the manufacture and use of any kind of glass leaves a vastly greater carbon footprint than brick.

Style quotient

A wide range of decorative glass is available in the market. The opaque 鈥榩lanileque鈥?glass with colour coating on one side, for instance.

There are also other varities like the laminated bullet proof glass used in high-security homes, glass bricks and tiles, glasses with patterns and sandwiched design, and more.

Some expensive glasses can turn from clear to opaque at the flick of a switch, some come impregnated with LED lights that can be turned on to give a glow or even change colours. There is also thick load-bearing glass that one can walk on if used as flooring.

Is glass safe?

Some types of glass are as tough and safe as wooden doors or windows. 鈥淪afety films are available; we could take two 6mm toughened or heat-strengthened glass sheets and put PVB film between them, but people still have a fear perception,鈥?says Verma.

鈥淔or exteriors, laminated glass is better as it doesn鈥檛 break into sharp pieces on impact and can be replaced safely,鈥?says Siddarth Money, architect, KSM Architecture. When using larger glass panels, the thickness can be increased from the conventional 4-6 mm to 8, 10 or 12 mm to avoid shattering. For the same reason, top quality hardware must be used.

As for fire safety, 鈥渆nough opening panes must be incorporated into the glass fa莽ade to allow ventilation and evacuation,鈥?says Money, adding that in rooms that have files or other documents, 鈥榩yrostop鈥?or fire-resistant glass could be used.鈥?
Black beauty,2013-07-12 13:12:43+00:00,July 12"

 as I have come across clients who are completely against using it in any form



 discoloured due to environmental pollution resulting in blackish tones to houses around the area. These houses in turn have inspired a whole generation of modern architects who now create some stunning examples of true 鈥榖lack鈥?architecture.

 black window frames are practical and effective as every view out is framed like a picture.

 black brick has a roughness and breaks down the visual scale



 highlighting and accentuating the colours and forms. This concept can also work on vertical surfaces

 take advice from experts if you are unsure or just experiment yourself!


"February 22, 2013 03:04 pm | Updated 03:04 pm IST

Whether you鈥檙e looking to redo an existing bathroom or starting out to set up a new one, these simple ground rules will help you make the most of what you have. 鈥淵ou must pay attention to different aspects of the bathroom and also focus on functionality. Look at who is going to use the bathroom and then design it accordingly,鈥?says Vikram B, architect and interior designer. Indeed, aesthetics can always be brought into the picture later, once the basic needs are met.

Tiles and flooring

Since bathrooms tend to be smaller rooms, use smaller tiles. This will ensure limited wastage. 鈥淐hoose a tile pattern that you like and if you divide the bathroom into wet and dry areas, then you don鈥檛 have to tile the entire room. You can tile till about three feet off the ground,鈥?says Vikram. Joint-free tiles are easy to maintain and don鈥檛 let dirt and germs accumulate. Non-slip tiles are a great option, especially if you have elderly people at home. Slopes and drains in the bathroom will make sure water doesn鈥檛 stagnate. 鈥淢any people prefer the shower area to be lower than the WC area. This helps demarcate the wet and dry spaces,鈥?says Vikram. Your budget will determine whether you pick mosaic or ceramic tiles.

Plumbing

There are plenty of options in sanitary fixtures, based on budgets and spaces. If there鈥檚 a space crunch, consider wall-mounted WCs. 鈥淔or wall-mounted fixtures, you need a rear wall that can support the fixture or a ledge with a minimum thickness of 9 inches,鈥?says Vikram. As for taps and showers, decide if are more comfortable with a single lever tap to mix hot and cold water or separate levers. Single lever taps need enough water pressure, so check that first before you install it or you will only get a trickle of water. Decide early if you want a hot water option in the wash basin and add the fixture and line accordingly.

Shower area

While shower areas can be demarcated with glass, acrylic or fiberglass partitions, a shower curtain works just as well if you are on a shoestring budget. 鈥淟ower flooring with the right slope will ensure that water drains out effectively,鈥?says Vikram. His advice is to always have the shower in the far end of the bathroom and the WC in the middle. 鈥淧eople tend to do the opposite but this is the most effective way to set up a shower,鈥?he says.

Storage

Storage spaces are integral to bathrooms. 鈥淭he storage must be out of reach of water and this needs planning,鈥?says the architect. Wherever possible, create unobtrusive storage spaces or niches tucked into walls instead of protruding shelves. 鈥淭his ensures dry storage as well as safety in case someone slips or accidentally gets soap in the eye!鈥?A ledge or vanity with mirror just above the basin makes ideal storage for toiletries. Lighting above the mirror is a must, for shaving or even make-up. 鈥淎dd a tissue holder next to the WC and a towel rack next to the basin. Readymade flats sometimes leave these crucial points out.

A few add-ons

An exhaust fan, especially for a much-shared bathroom, is a good idea. It ensures better circulation of fresh air. A small, wall-mounted fan is another good idea for summers and dry floors. Make sure there are plug points for hair dryers and shaving equipment, but make sure they won鈥檛 have water splashing on them. Once these basic needs are met, you can personalise the space with easy-to-maintain artifacts, paintings or a wacky poster behind the door.

Special care

In case there are senior citizens, children or physically challenged people in your home, follow the basic rules of wide doors opening outwards, a small bench or stool in the shower, grab rails and non-slip mats."
"June 14, 2013 04:29 pm | Updated 04:29 pm IST

The next time you鈥檙e giving your home a makeover, consider adding a little more personality to your walls as well. And it鈥檚 not just about choosing the right pattern; material and texture too have an important role to play. 鈥淲hatever the interior design, wallpapers can highlight or transform the look,鈥?says Vani Vijay, Managing Partner at Kum Kum Wallpapers, a retailer for wall covering, in Bengaluru.

Wallpaper vs. wall paint

Great wallpaper is the quickest way to revamp a space. No matter how small the room might be, it can create a feeling of expansion. Cracks and unsightly marks, wallpapers can pretty much cover it all up, better than paint.

In terms of design, it offers a lot of flexibility too. One can choose to cover just one wall or the entire room with a certain pattern. If you don鈥檛 feel as adventurous, there鈥檚 always the option to cover only half the wall or go minimalistic by adding a simple trim along the edges.

And if you think all you鈥檙e going to get is printed patterns on paper, think again. Wallpapers today come in different materials such as vinyl, silk and organic fabrics, or textures such as embossed or even a metallic or granite finish. 鈥淲allpapers made with natural materials like real fabric, real bamboo and even Swarovski crystals bring out the uniqueness and beauty of it all. What鈥檚 more they are also washable,鈥?says Vani. So dust, oil, tea, coffee, paint, no matter what the stain, the beauty of your wall shall remain untainted. No wonder why many people today prefer vinyl wallpapers for their kitchen and large bathrooms instead of the usual paint.

A simple affair

Contrary to what one may think, installing wallpaper is a rather simple procedure that can be completed in just a few hours. No mess and no respiratory uneasiness.

When compared with paint, Vani points out that wallpapers score a notch higher owing to their washability, colourfastness, variety of designs and longevity. While paint needs to be touched up every one to two years, well-maintained wallpaper can last almost seven or eight years, making it more economical than colour.

However, since various wall d茅cor solutions are now also offered in paint, do wallpapers still hold as much interest? 鈥淭hough various patterns have come out in paints, they only try to imitate wallpapers. This too can鈥檛 be fully achieved as wallpapers offer thousands of shades, designs and textures,鈥?observes Vani, 鈥淢oreover you cannot always wash a texture painted wall. In case of wallpapers all you need is a soapy sponge.鈥?
However, one does need to be cautious of the condition of the wall before plastering the covering onto the surface. 鈥淭here are no real negatives in using wallpapers, except that they are not meant for exterior walls and are not recommended on surfaces that suffer from water leakage,鈥?says Vani, 鈥淥therwise, they are perfect beacause wall papers are water resistant, fire retardant and pests do not affect them.鈥?
Making the choice

Choosing the right wallpaper for your room may take a while, but the process is simpler if you stick to a few basic norms. While selecting a pattern, keep in mind the size of the room. If the room is narrow and you鈥檇 like it to seem wider, pick patterns that extend horizontally. Similarly, if you need your room to appear taller in height, go for vertical designs. Vani adds that dark colours go well in rooms that have more light. Pastel shades on the other hand suit rooms with less light. 鈥淩eserve larger motifs and self designs for bigger rooms and walls,鈥?she suggests.

Do keep in mind the theme and furnishings when you pick the wallpaper, so that the d茅cor stands united in design. 鈥淐urrently, geometric patterns, abstract and self-designs are in,鈥?states Vani. Bear in mind that before you begin pasting the wall covering, it is a good idea to recheck the paper you鈥檝e chosen to ensure it is of the same shade and without any defect. Because the cost of the wallpaper depends on the number of rolls utilized to cover the wall, carry the exact measurements of the wall when you visit the store. This will certainly help to budget your expenses."
"It was like any other day at Chennai's Marina Beach 鈥?a popular hangout zone for people of all ages. There was the familiar sight of the soothsayer with his caged parrot, women palmists, bustling young vendors of sundal (boiled lentils), ice-cream carts and other attractions鈥?Right in the middle of this everyday scene, people found themselves stopping and examining installations of tiny flags, wind wanes and a number of sand sculptures lining the shore.

Spread out, literally, right under their nose, this was an art project titled 鈥淐atastrophe鈥?that was curated by Koumudi Patil as part of Art Chennai 2012, a nine-day event that aimed to bring art closer to the public/ public spaces. The corporate sponsors for this 鈥渇estival of modern and contemporary art in South India鈥?included the CII and Tamil Nadu Tourism Department, which aimed to 鈥済row the art industry in South India鈥?

Besides taking paintings, photos and installations to various galleries and public venues such as railway stations and malls, the annual event, in its second year, included conferences at which artists, historians, art collectors and the public interacted.

At suburban stations the walls were mounted with photographs under a project organised by Goethe-institut and Travelling Lens.

At Marina Beach, 鈥淚 am Angry鈥? an installation by Sanjeev Khandekar and Vaishali Narkar, reflected on the turmoil of the poor in an increasingly lopsided society, where the gap between the haves and have鈥搉ots keeps widening. The artists expressed their anguish at the capitalism and market-driven lives that have reduced human beings to two-legged cost centres. 鈥淏oth Nature and humanity are injured by the greed of few. Therefore we are angry and do not have anything to do but flag it out.鈥?And so they installed hundreds of flags along the shore and on wooden scaffolding, each screaming out 鈥淚 am Angry鈥︹€?
Reflecting on the poignant depiction, as one walked further and bumped into a fisherman 鈥?who was not part of the composition! 鈥?mending his net for the next day's catch, the eternal question pops up: Does art mirror life, or does life inspire art? A red pyramid structure by Subodh Kerkar had chappals strewn inside. This evoked eerie memories of lives lost to the devastating tsunami in 2004.

Although the installations on Marina Beach were excellent creative works, they somehow didn't appear to make a significant connect with the average beach visitor. The reasons could be several. Not many appeared aware of the ongoing festival. Perhaps a few signboards may have helped, especially as the city still remains new to the concept of art in public places. The theme boards near the installations proved rather inadequate for this.

Among the gallery exhibits, 鈥淟et the World In: Narrative and Beyond in Contemporary Indian Art鈥? at Lalit Kala Akademi, was unique because it represented three generations of artists. Curated by Chaitanya Sambrani, the concept is based on the theory that post-colonial people/ artists saw themselves as legitimate inheritors of multiple traditions. This assertion galvanised a reinvention of tradition to accommodate a sense of local as well as international belonging. Nilima Sheikh's 鈥淪tudies for Rozgar鈥?had brush drawings of rural folk at work, and Arpita Singh's 鈥淓xile鈥?essayed the moving milieu.

鈥淐onsumption鈥?had a couple of digital prints on paper by Vivan Sundaram under the caption 鈥楤arricade', portraying the chaos of used and waste material. Another canvas had a plate with half-eaten food. An installation called 鈥淢etal Box鈥?had rows of liquor bottle caps. The theme warned that the 鈥渁ftermath of consumption haunted the present, no matter how hard we try to defer it鈥?"
"June 19, 2012 07:15 pm | Updated July 12, 2016 07:01 am IST - CHENNAI:

The Goethe-institut鈥檚 auditorium slowly filled up with people who鈥檝e come to watch the Chennai Queer Film Festival 2012, organised by Orinam and Chennai Dost.

It was a floating crowd and there was a buzz of excitement in the room, as movie after movie was screened.

And after every screening, opinions were voiced and discussions held, to bring out the relevance of the films.

Busting myths

鈥淲e鈥檝e been doing film screenings in Chennai for a while and always wanted to hold an event to showcase about 20 to 25 LGBT-themed films covering a vast range of issues,鈥?says Vikranth Prasanna, founder, Chennai Dost.

鈥淭his is also to bust myths about our community, which have spread mainly due to the way films have portrayed us all these years. We want to make people understand who we really are and also to tell them we鈥檙e not objects of humour.鈥?
The film festival, which took place during the weekend, showcased feature and short films from all over the globe, including Rites Of Passage, an American and Muro, a Spanish film.

There was an array of Indian films too 鈥?such as Amen, which talks about two men who meet over a dating site and go through a gamut of emotions before accepting their realities. The film is crisp, well-balanced, humorous and is a rather sensitive portrayal two different kinds of acceptance; of an openly gay man who gets over his childhood trauma and another, who learns to accept his sexuality on the eve of his engagement.

鈥淲e鈥檝e had about 400-odd people come to the festival; the response was great. I even met a parent here who brought the son along so he can watch the films, listen to the discussions and learn to respect other sexes,鈥?says Vikranth.

Ajay Sathyan, who was at the screening, was happy about the kind of films being screened. 鈥淲e鈥檝e never had a queer film festival here before and I鈥檓 glad someone organised it. I like the fact that they screened a lot of regional films because that makes it more personal and the stories revolve around people like us, in similar settings, allowing us to relate to and sympathise with them.鈥?
Mr. and Mrs. Iyer, a film by Charukesh Sekar was one of the films that was screened and is based on a short story by blogger Lavanya Mohan. The short film looks at how a Tamil Brahmin family handles the heat when their son proposes to marry an 鈥業yengar鈥?boy.

鈥淚 wrote this story for my blog in November 2008, and it suddenly went up on Facebook notes, email forwards, other blogs. The director (Charukesh) saw it online and decided to make a movie out of it,鈥?says Lavanya. 鈥淚 wasn鈥檛 able to attend the film festival, but that said, I think it鈥檚 a great medium to spread awareness about the LGBT community in Chennai.鈥?
鈥淚 wouldn鈥檛 say people who watched these films will immediately change their perspective,鈥?says Vikranth. 鈥淏ut it鈥檚 a start.鈥?
Documentary films v. social media,2011-08-10 15:08:03+00:00,August 10"

 ultras supporting their football club ( Das Rudel or The Mob )

 moderated by Nupur Basu

 film critic M.K. Raghavendra and CEO of Business Blogging Kiruba Shankar

 asking whether social media and documentary films were 鈥渇riend or foe鈥? The discussion then moved on to debate the short attention span online media could be creating

 in enabling everyone to have an opinion

 letter writing

 some panellists said. Facebook and Twitter could be seen as distribution channels for documentaries and play a powerful role in the dissemination of critical information.

 were meant for a niche audience




"To provide a bulwark against what he called the 鈥渋ntellectual desert"" that was Bombay in 1804, James Mackintosh, the chief justice of the recorder鈥檚 court, founded the Literary Society of Bombay. After a series of name changes, it has evolved into today鈥檚 Asiatic Society of Mumbai (ASM), the circulation and research library housed in the 1830 Town Hall building in the city鈥檚 Fort neighbourhood. Colonial officers like Mackintosh might not have been able to see the forest for the trees, but their predilection for record keeping was a bonanza for the libraries, archives and reading rooms that eventually passed from their purview to India鈥檚.

Fine print: The archive has records dating back to the 17th century. Photo: Abhijit Bhatlekar/Mint

Help could be on the way for some archives, as conservation initiatives are under way. At the ASM library, succour has been provided in the form of assistance from the German cultural institute, Goethe-institut. 鈥淏ook conservation is an area where Germany has a lot of expertise, and India is a country where you have quite a lot of treasures,"" says Marla Stukenberg, director of the Goethe-institut, Mumbai.

A handwritten letter from Mahatma Gandhi. Photo: Abhijit Bhatlekar/Mint.

Incorporated in 1830 as a branch of the Royal Asiatic Society of Great Britain and Ireland by then governor John Malcolm, the library has been a repository for all kinds of printed matter. Today the building is in the midst of a renovation, its facade shrouded by scaffolding, its durbar hall and rosewood-lined periodicals room off limits and its giant statue of Malcolm packed in a wooden box. The corridors of the library鈥檚 basement are heaving with bundles of books from the library鈥檚 stacks. The objects in the special collections room haven鈥檛 fared much better. Until recently, the room wasn鈥檛 air-conditioned. Even now, it鈥檚 only cooled during working hours.

As part of the German project, two conservators from the ASM travelled to the Berlin State Library in October, where they were trained in modern paper conservation techniques such as de-acidification. The ASM will also send three of its most valuable books to the library in Berlin for restoration. Each book will take one conservator a month to restore, Stukenberg says. The Goethe-institut will also provide cabinets for the more than 1,300 valuable maps.

Efforts are on to preserve, scan and digitize pages. Photos by Abhijit Bhatlekar/Mint

鈥淢any curators and archivists don鈥檛 know the extent of the materials they are sitting on,"" says Guha, and the directorship of state archives is often a 鈥減unishment post"" where bureaucrats go to languish. As a result, many collections too languish. In many cases, adds Guha, 鈥測ou will be the first and last person to read some papers because they will crumble when you touch them.""

Housed in several locations throughout the state, The Maharashtra State Archives hold the lion鈥檚 share of the historical record of the region dating back to the 1630s. The Mumbai branch is housed in a cavernous space at Elphinstone College, also in Fort. Sitting on a table here for re-shelving is a bound Calendar of the 鈥楺uit India鈥?Movement in the Bombay Presidency and lining the floor are records of the British secret and political department dating from 1802, waiting to be scanned.

Inside, staffers are feverishly working to scan and digitize the records, starting with the most frail. So far, 5.4 million pages have been scanned out of more than 150 million.

Some researchers are concerned that time might be running out for many of the materials in the state archives. 鈥淗istorically, it was one of the best managed of (India鈥檚) state archives,"" says Shekhar Krishnan, a historian completing a PhD in colonial Mumbai at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, US. 鈥淏ut over the last 10 years, there has been a grievous decline. The last major classification was done in the late 1970s.""

Meanwhile, many of the state鈥檚 archives have been shifted here from Raj Bhavan in Malabar Hill, the seat of the state governor and, before independence, the British governor. Records since 1935 are still there, however, and they too are getting a tending to.

Thanks to a 鈧?26 lakh grant from the state government for a three-year restoration project, the Raj Bhavan archives will be the first of their kind in India to be open to the public, according to Vikas Chandra Rastogi, secretary to the Maharashtra governor, K. Sankaranarayanan. The project鈥攚hich will include a complete inventory and classification of the archives and storage in a newly built record room鈥攊s being overseen by Ashok Kharade, who spent 39 years as an archivist in The Maharashtra State Archives before his retirement in 2006.

Kharade is relishing the opportunity to get it right in the new Raj Bhavan archives, which will open to the public next year. At the time of Mint鈥檚 visit, he had personally catalogued and indexed 2,252 files, at the rate of two files per day. The completed files now sit in tidy bundles on shelves in an air-conditioned room, waiting to be moved to the new building. When it opens, 鈥渋t will be the best archive in the nation"", Kharade says, beaming with pride. 鈥淎nd it will always be clean. I don鈥檛 like dusty stacks.""

david.s@livemint.com

Topics"
"DANCE



鈥楧akshayagam鈥?


A kathakali performance called Dakshayagam will be presented by the Bangalore Club for Kathakali and the Arts on February 25, 6 pm at the Purandhara Hall, Indiranagar. This show will see the best of artistes and musicians with rich costumes present the stories in an authentic manner that can appease kathakali lovers. For details, call 23341583 or 9845240558.



Yakshagana



Sri Srushti Samskrutika Kalamandali will present Veera Vrushasena and Karnaavasana, two yakshagana prasangas, on February 12, 4.30 pm at Nayana Sabhanghana, J C Road. For

details, call 9480591848.



Bharatanatyam



The Indian Institute of World Culture, B P Wadia Road, Basavanagudi has organised the bharatanatyam recital of Shravanthi Satish, a disciple of B Bhanumati, at its premises on February 11, 6 pm. Shravanthi Satish has been learning bharatanatyam under the tutelage and guidance of Bhanumati and Sheela Chandrashekhar for the last 12 years. She performed her arangetram in July last year.



MUSIC



Treat galore



Alliance Francaise will host a series of events in February. It will screen

Khudito Pashan to continue its 150th anniversary celebrations of Rabindranath Tagore on February 11, 6.30 pm. Ashish Khokar鈥檚 Dance DISCourse will begin with Mysore Baani on February 12, 6.30 pm. Pop, reggae and jazz with young French musicians will be held on February 14, 7.30 pm. February will end with Cool Parisian pop by French group Fortune on February 23. Entry is free. For details, call 40808181.



Bryan Adams live



Celebrated international singer and songwriter, Bryan Adams is all set to enthrall Bangaloreans again with his heart-warming, husky yet mellow voice on February 13, 5 pm at Palace Grounds. Tickets are available at Landmark stores, Bharat Petroleum Petrol pumps (In & Out stores) and Furtados Music Store. You can also book them online through entertainment.netsurf.co.in and www.kyazoonga.com/bryanadams. The ticket prices are gold 鈥?Rs 3,500 and silver 鈥?Rs 1,500.



Flute concert



A Karnataka classical flute concert by N Rajkamal, supported on violin by Charulata Ramanujam, mridangam by M T Rajakesari and khanjari by G Guruprasanna will be held on February 12, 6.15 pm. The venue is Keshava Samskruthi Sabha, 556, Samskruthi Bhavan, 11 Main, ISRO Layout. For details, call 9845054194.



鈥楴irantaram鈥?


Sangeetha Sambhrama is celebrating Nirantaram, the national festival of music and dance till February 11 at Seva Sadan, Malleswaram and Chowdiah Memorial Hall. Among other programmes, on February 10, 5 pm, the Academy of Music and Sangeetha Sambhrama will present dance by students of Sri Rajarajeshwari Kala Niketan at Chowdiah Hall. At the same venue, there will also be a vocal duet by P Ramaa and R Chandrika at 6 pm. For details, call 9740765292.



Dusk to dawn



The Fireflies Festival of Music 2011 will begin on February 19, 7 pm and will go on till 7 am. The stage is set under a banyan tree in an open air amphitheatre, adjacent to a lake. The artistes performing are Thermal and a Quarter, Swarathma,

Something Relevant, Moon Arra, Spinifex with Dr Mysore Manjunath, The Bicycle Days, Esperanto, Dollu Kunitha, Parvaaz, Filter Coffee, Vedanth and Bindu, Faiyaz Khan. Entry passes will be available at the venue.



鈥榊aadein鈥?


Yaadein-4, a show with songs of Shankar Jaikishan, will be held on February 19, 6.30 pm at Ambedkar Bhavan, Miller鈥檚 Road. The programme will have singers Sinchan Dixit, Biju Nair, Sanjay Singh, Joseph Devaraaj and Urvi Shah. It will also have singers from TV reality shows participating. Tickets are available at all Sapna Book House stores. For details, call 9845159879.



鈥楽antoshakke...鈥?


Fever Tribute presents Santoshakke Haadu Santoshakke Shankar Nag: Sihi Nenapu, a musical tribute to the legendary Shankar Nag on February 18, 6.30 pm at Chowdiah Memorial Hall.



Artistes performing at the concert are Archana Udupa, Nanditha, Shamitha Malnad, Chethan, Badri Prasad and Chinmayi.



'Raga Sangama'



Raga Sangama will present Pandit Bhimsen Joshi鈥檚 Smarananjali Hindustani classical vocal recital by Kaivalyakumar Gurav, accompanied by Ravindra Katoti and

Ravindra Yavagal, on February 13, 5.30 pm at SNEA Bhavan, behind

Police outpost, 'B' Block, Sahakaranagar.



Fado touch



The Bangalore School of Music, Karnataka Goan Association and Catholic Club are organising a special Portuguese Fado and Goan music concert featuring the celebrated Fado singer Sonia Shirsat. Sonia will be accompanied by Portuguese musicians Flavio Cardoso and Pedro Soares. The concert will be held on February 12, 7.30 pm at Catholic Club, Museum Road (Behind St Patrick鈥檚 Church). Entry by donation cards.

For details, call 23546090 or 41285017.



鈥楽apta Sitar鈥?


Ustad Bale Khan Memorial Trust presents Sapta Sitar by Khan Brothers from

Dharwad and vocal presentation by Purnima Bhatt Kulkarni on February 13, 5.30 pm at JSS Auditorium, Jayanagar.



For details, call 9632033600.

Live act



Foreigner and Niladri Kumar will be performing live at Palace Grounds on February 20. Foreigner is universally hailed as one of the most popular rock acts in the world, racking up scores of smash hits, multi-platinum albums, and sold out concert tours. One of the more serious young exponents of Indian classical music, Niladri Kumar鈥檚 unparalleled brilliance is a result of years of learning and a lineage of five generation of sitar players. For tickets, log on to www.bookmyshow.com

鈥楽mruti鈥?


Renuka Sangeeth Sabha is organising Smruti, an all-night music festival, at Ravindra Kalakshetra, J C Road on February 12, 9 pm. The event is a musical tribute to the vocalist late Pandit Arjunsa Nakod.



On the occasion, Pandit Rajashekhar Mansur, M S Sheela and Meeta Pandit will perform vocal recitals among other performances.



For details, call 9448113924.



DRAMA



鈥楢 Small Small World鈥?


An upcoming documentary play, called A Small Small World, based on the story of the same name by Philip Haucke, will be staged at Ranga Shankara on February 12, 7.30 pm and February 13, 3.30 pm and 7.30 pm. The play will be staged at Goethe-institut Max Mueller Bhavan on February 18, 6.30 pm. It is written, directed and produced by Konradin Kunze and Sophia Stepf. For tickets, log on to www.bookmyshow.com or call 9886370614.

鈥楪arma Garam Chai鈥?


At the Garma Garam Chai event to be held on February 12, 4 pm to 6 pm, Ashutosh Potdar will read excerpts from Marathi plays Aanandbhog Mall and Pulakhalacha Bombalya Maruti. Ashutosh Potdar is a playwright and poet. The venue is Vibgyor, 71, Sona Towers, 5th Floor, Miller鈥檚 Road.



鈥楰Ondavaraaru鈥?


Ranga Vartula is presenting the Kannada play KOndavaraaru on February 10, 7 pm at K V Subbanna Aaptha Rangamandira, No 151, 7th Cross, Teachers鈥?Colony 1st Stage, near Dayananda Sagar College, opposite to Vasudha Bhavan. The play is written by Prasanna and directed by Pramod Shiggaon.



鈥楬amlet鈥?


Rajat Kapoor鈥檚 highly acclaimed comedy Hamlet, the Clown Prince will be staged at Jagriti Theatre, Varthur Road on February 12, 8 pm and on February 13, 3 pm and 6.30 pm. Tickets are available at www.indianstage.in/events/jagrititheatre.html

POT POURRI



Unique collection



Vermilion House presents Creative Bee, a collection of contemporary yet ethnic hand woven, hand block-printed fashion textiles on February 11 and 12 at Vermilion House, 3/12, Cleveland Road Cross, Fraser Town. This collection showcases the pre-summer range of saris, dupattas and stoles designed in special weaves by Bina Rao. The exhibition timing is from 10.30 am to 7 pm. For details, call 41225830.

Book release



Goethe-institut/Max Mueller Bhavan will release the illustrated volume GH Krumbiegel: Whatever he touched, he adorned, paying tribute to the German horticulturist Gustav Hermann Krumbiegel, the inspiration behind Lalbagh and other vital oases in Bangalore and Karnataka. The event will be held on February 11, 6.30 pm at Goethe-institut/Max Mueller Bhavan. For details, call 25205305 or visit www.goethe.de/bangalore

ART



Contemporary shots



The National Gallery of Modern Art, in association with British Council, is hosting an exhibition on contemporary photography from the Victoria and Albert Museum, London, which has the largest collection of photographs in the world.



The exhibition, which will be on till February 27, will have 40 photographs and is called Something That I鈥檒l Never Really See.



The artists whose works are exhibited include Cindy Sherman, Edgar Martins, Gavin Turk, Huang Yan and Olga Chernysheva.

鈥楻hythm鈥?


Rhythm, an exhibition of paintings, will be on at Chitrakala Parishat till

February 11.

Chiittara works



The Centre for Revival of Indigenous Art is organising an introductory workshop on Chiittara painting till February 13 at Centre for Revival of Indigenous Art (CFRIA), 452, 1st Floor, 3rd Cross, Wilson Garden. For more information, call 22235413.



鈥楽mall is beautiful鈥?


Kynkyny Art is holding Small is Beautiful, an exhibition of small and affordable paintings by

Basuki Dasgupta, G Subramanian, Sachin Jaltare, Rajesh Salgaonkar, Sivabalan, Elayaraja, Shankar Kendale, Doddamani, Praveen Kumar, Dhananjaya, Shashidhar Lohar, Nishant Dange, Jasu Rawal, J M S Mani, Amaresh Bijjal, Krishnappa, Ganapathi Hegde, Sujata Achrekar, Sahba Hoda, Dhrubajyoti Baral, Sultana Hasan etc, till February 10.



Silk route



Silk Story 鈥?Unusual Treasures in Silk, a collection of hand embroidered silk needle paintings by Arun Jain and Pratima Mulani, is on at Pratima鈥檚 Art Gallery, Andrew鈥檚 Building, M G Road, between 11 am and 8 pm. The expo will be on till February 10.

You are holding an event and want the City to know about it? Send us the details of the programme, date and time, along with a photo to get it listed in our 鈥業n the City鈥?column.

Our email id: dhmetro@deccanherald.co.in"
"Two 鈥榟appenings鈥?during the fag-end of the year brought some sunshine to the Indian art scene which, according to many, remained somewhat 鈥榗ool鈥?during 2010.

One. The much-awaited Indian debut of internationally acclaimed artist Anish Kapoor materialised in November with a twin exhibition package at Mehboob Film Studios, Mumbai and National Gallery of Modern Art, Delhi. Incorporating thirty large-scale installations, the event is touted to be the largest and most ambitious exhibition project ever to be developed on the work of the London-based sculptor of Indian origin, who has won, among others, the prestigious Turner Prize (1990).



According to the official press release, the exhibitions feature a selection of sculptures and installations which span the breadth of the artist鈥檚 career, from his early pigment-based sculptures of the 1980s right through to his most recent wax installations. 鈥淓ach exhibition will focus on a different strand of Kapoor鈥檚 practice, with each show complementing the other to form an overall picture of the diversity and energy within his oeuvre. Both exhibitions will feature works which were included in the recent, record-breaking exhibition of Kapoor鈥檚 work at the Royal Academy, London, which attracted over 2,75,000 visitors in less than three months.鈥?


Two. In a significant development, the Winter Auction 2010 by Saffronart (December 8-9) witnessed a sale of 80% of the lots on offer. The total winning value (inclusive of buyer鈥檚 premium) exceeded Rs 30.43 crore. The top 15 lots sold included four paintings each of Francis Newton Souza and M F Husain; three of S H Raza; and one each of Subodh Gupta, Shibu Natesan and N S Harsha.



The real eye-popper was, however, Arpita Singh whose 鈥榃ish Dream鈥?(2000-01) was lapped up for a whopping Rs 9.56 crore. This created an auction record for the 73-year-old Delhi-based artist and as importantly, the 287x159 inch mural (comprising sixteen individual canvases of varying dimensions) became the most valued art work by a woman artist in the country.



Despite a scenario of 鈥榗autious optimism鈥?in the art market, there was no let up in art activities throughout the year, particularly in Delhi and Mumbai which saw several impressive exhibitions including the retrospective of senior artist Krishen Khanna.



The ever-active Vadehra Art Gallery presented a series of shows of both modern masters and contemporary artists including S H Raza (Recent Works), Sumedh Rajendran (Dual Liquid), Anjolie Ela Menon (Through the Patina), Prajakta Palav Aher (Sprouting Beads), Paramjit Singh (Beauty & Loss - A Landscape Diary), Anju Dodia (Necklace of Echoes), Atul Dodiya (Malevich Matters and Other Shutters/ Vadehra, ND), and Raghu Rai (A photographic journey into the heart of classical music).



Operating in Delhi and Berlin, Nature Morte hosted solo and group shows including Tract (solo by H G Arun Kumar), If it Rains Fire (Atul Dodiya), Nothing Lost in Translation (Mithu Sen), Spiral Jetty (featuring, among others, Anita Dube, Abhishek Hazra, Pushpamala N),and photographic solos of Gauri Gill (Notes from the Desert), and Dayanita Singh (Dream Villa).



In Mumbai, Chemould Prescot Road showcased Nalini Malani (Splitting the Other), Paula Sengupta (Rivers of Blood), Gieve Patel (Select Works 1971-2006), Nilima Sheikh (Each Night Put Kashmir in Your Dreams), Mithu Sen (Black Candy) and Madhvi Subrahmanian (Organic/ Abstract), among others.



The relatively new but high profile gallery BMB in Mumbai organised several impressive shows curated by well-known artist Bose Krishnamachari. In Delhi, Shrine Empire Gallery came up with some exciting shows which included Libya鈥揵orn Fawad Khan鈥檚 鈥淭he Road Taken鈥? New York 鈥?based Gautam Kansara鈥檚 鈥淒on鈥檛 Hurry, Don鈥檛 Worry鈥?and a multi-media group show 鈥淣otes on the Disappearance of Real鈥?by Bangalore-based curators Meena Vari and Arvind Lodaya.



Gallery Espace, Delhi hosted an unusual project titled 鈥淐onscious-sub-conscious鈥?in which artist Manjunath Kamath painted the gallery walls over a period of seven days; thereafter, the walls were completely whitewashed and brought to original shape and colour!



Sakshi Gallery, Mumbai, apart from its shows in India, presented the works of Surendran Nair (Neti Neti) at Frey Norris Gallery, USA in November; and Mysore-based N S Harsha at the Liverpool Biennale 2010.



In the garden city



Bangalore too had its share of interesting exhibitions, art camps, lectures and collaborative events during 2010. Among the most important shows in the city was Cinema Verite Redux curated by London-based Shaheen Meerali. The innovatively displayed event at Gallery Sumukha featured the works of seven national and international artists viz., Subba Ghosh, Parvathi Nayar, Attila Richard Lukacs, Charly Nijensohn, Prasad Raghavan, Marina Roy and Ravi Kumar Kashi.



Galleryske continued to bring some cutting-edge art of young and enterprising artists. It included Krishnaraj Chonat鈥檚 installations (My hands smell of you); Anup Mathew Thomas鈥檚 photographic expeditions (View from Conolly's Plot), Sreshta Premnath multi-media investigations (LEO: Procedures in search of an original index); and Zakkir Hussain鈥檚 vexing imagery (103掳 C Yellow Fever and other works).The current show by Bharati Kher titled 鈥淒isturbia, utopia, house beautiful鈥?imaginatively mingles objects of domesticity with memory, nostalgia and unsettling feelings.



Crimson鈥檚 offerings included a solo show by Mumbai-based artist Ratnadeep Gopal Adivrekar, and a group show titled Irreverent Gene, curated by Nalini Malaviya.

The only gallery space entirely dedicated to photography, Tasveer/ Sua House, hosted some fine exhibitions. Its current show, 鈥淎t the Movies 鈥?Magnum ke Tasveer鈥? presents a wonderful collection of black and white pictures which capture some striking moments in the history of American cinema.



The city鈥檚 alternate art venues like No.1 Shanti Road Gallery/ Studio and Samuha too remained active. As pre-declared, Samuha, the artists鈥?collective, wound up in the middle of the year.



India Foundation for the Arts hosted a two-day Arts Education Conference as an extension of its Kali-Kalisu initiative and brought teachers, artists, educators and researchers on a single platform.



A welcome addition to art activities in the city was a series of artist talks that took place at different venues. Prominent speakers included curator Shaheen Meerali (at NGMA), German filmmaker Hito Steyeri (Goethe-institut), and artists N S Harsha (Goethe-institut), Nilima Sheikh (Venkatappa Art Gallery), Balan Nambiar (NGMA), and Subodh Gupta (NGMA). Somberikatte@1 Shanti Road too facilitated a series of lectures in the areas of art history, recent art practice and visual anthropology in India.



As the year drew to a close, the organisers of Skoda Art Prize for contemporary art in India announced the final shortlist of three artists for the coveted prize for 2010-11. Two of them are Bangalore-based artists, Kiran Subbaiah and Alwar Balasubramaniam, the third one being Delhi-based Mithu Sen. The final winner to be announced in the New Year will receive the title and prize of Rs 10 lakh."
"March 15, 2010 06:07 pm | Updated 06:07 pm IST

鈥淐an a curator actually choose artworks that define certain cultural aspects from a foreign culture? Is it necessary to gain expertise on a certain world region in order to understand its artists? Or can one just walk over to any country and use the learned criteria and rules to judge art? These were the reasons I applied for this residency and came to India,鈥?says Barbara Scheuermann's about her ongoing curatorial research trip funded by the Goethe-institut.

Her visits are to centres of contemporary art practice in Kolkata, Delhi, Chennai, Baroda, Mumbai and Bangalore. 鈥淭he five-week residency in these cities has given me, a curator from Europe, a chance to see personally what the Indian art scene is all about. Earlier we just had art outlets which brought Indian art, purported to be representative of Indian art. Elephants, the bindi鈥ust stereotypical images of India were what we saw of Indian art in Europe.鈥?In Delhi, Rohini Devasher's art was very sophisticated and aesthetically appealing and 鈥渋t spoke a global language if there is something like that,鈥?said Barbara. In Kolkata she enjoyed Suhasini Kejriwal's work, which was very dense and thought provoking. 鈥淭hey are not your regular Indian art but they all speak a global language,鈥?she said.

What's genuine?

鈥淢any artists on my trip asked me if it was possible to just walk into a country and understand its art. Well that's a hard question but this trip is sensitising me to various artists and their work. I feel if there was more interaction between western and Indian curators we could have a lot more exhibited, which is not,鈥?she said. 鈥淎rtists in India and China used to make art which was meant to be exotic, to appeal to the west so that is where my job as a curator is 鈥?to look for what is 鈥榞enuine' art.鈥?
During her talk, which was held at Studio 1, Shanti Road, entitled, 鈥淭hrough the peephole: thinking about how to approach contemporary art from India鈥? Barbara explained the work of a curator. It included being responsible for the entire exhibition including the initial idea, organising the loans of art works, the selection of the art works. The curator is the interface between everyone and the exhibit.

鈥淭he contemporary art market in India has expanded hugely and so these five weeks have helped give me an idea of the Indian art scene,鈥?she said.

The residency has exposed Barbara to a lot more than just Indian Art across the country. 鈥淚 enjoy Indian cuisine. Bengali food is divine! I enjoy south Indian food as well, but what has caught my attention are your desserts. The crunchy jalebis, the thick and delicious kulfis. All your desserts are wonderful,鈥?she says."
"The European Union (EU) together with the Embassy of Switzerland, Italian Embassy, French Embassy, Alliance Fran莽aise, Goethe-institut and the British Council will host a multilingual jazz music tour in Sri Lanka to celebrate this year鈥檚 European Day of Languages falling on September 26.

As part of the broader EU campaign on a peaceful and inclusive society, the multilingual jazz music tour will feature mainstream, pop rock, jazz fusion, jazz pop and Latin jazz. The tour will begin in Colombo, travel to Kandy, and conclude in Jaffna, sharing the diversity of linguistic heritage with the people of Sri Lanka, to encourage intercultural understanding.

The inaugural concert will be held at the Sri Lanka Foundation Institute on September 24 at 6.30pm. It is a free event open to everyone on a first come first served basis. The concert will be followed by a jazz evening in Kandy on September 26 at 7pm, at the Slightly Chilled Lounge Bar and Restaurant. The final concert will be held at the Jaffna Public Library on Wednesday September 28 at 5.30pm.

The event will feature performances by singer, guitarist and songwriter Eliane Amherd and bassist, bandleader, composer, and producer Amanda Ruzza in German, French, Italian, Portuguese and English.

Born in Switzerland, Eliane Amherd lives in New York. The city鈥檚 savvy multicultural energy has had an influence in the unique sound of her original compositions which are jazzy, groovy and rooted in African, Brazilian and Latin music. A talented composer and lyricist and a graduate of The New School University for Jazz and Contemporary Music, Eliane performs as a leader or a featured artist in New York鈥檚 premiere clubs and tours in North and South America, Canada, Europe and Asia, where she appeared in international Festivals in China, Thailand, the Philippines, Myanmar, Malaysia, Nepal and Mongolia. She plays guitar in several NYC bands and collaborated with greats such as Marcus Strickland, Bashiri Johnson, Bill Ware, Hagar Ben Ari and Randy Brecker.

Born in S茫o Paulo, Brazil to a Chilean mother and an Italian father, Amanda Ruzza grew up in a house humming with music. Amanda began playing bass and engaging in professional performance early. In Brazil, she worked with distinguished Brazilian producers and arrangers, including the Grammy Award winner MoogieCanazio, Maestro Jobam and Sony Music Japan鈥檚 Osny Mello. She is based in New York at present. Besides being a musician fluent in an array of styles, Amanda is fluent in Portuguese, Spanish, Italian, and English."

"Back where he belongs, says Director Alliance Fran莽aise de Kotte By Ruqyyaha Deane Bruno Duparc fell in love with Sri Lanka the first time he was posted here View(s): View(s):

His journey with Alliance Fran莽aise in Sri Lanka coming full circle, newly appointed Director of Alliance Fran莽aise de Kotte and Alliance Fran莽aise in Sri Lanka and Maldives Coordinator, Bruno Duparc tells us how a simple voluntary teacher鈥檚 position almost 34 years ago has led to where he is now.

鈥淚t was my first encounter with Alliance Fran莽aise and Asia and I fell in love with them both. It was love at first sight,鈥?Duparc says as he paints a picture of the old Alliance Fran莽aise de Kotte branch in Ward Place whilst sitting in the library of their current offices located down Keppetipola Road amidst French books, magazines, DVDs and other paraphernalia.

After his first posting to Sri Lanka in the late 1980s Duparc went on to travel around the world and work at other branches of the Alliance Fran莽aise. From Morocco to Brazil and Australia, he travelled as the Alliance 鈥?one of the largest cultural non-governmental organisations in the world was in over 130 countries and currently has 832 branches. However it was Asia that really called out to him as he worked in Cambodia, Malaysia (where he met his wife) and Taiwan where he was posted as of last August.

鈥?I am back in Sri Lanka, back to square one and I wanted to come here. I could have gone to Japan, Singapore or anywhere else but the love for this country made me come back,鈥?he smiles.

With extensive experience managing Alliance Fran莽aise operations around the globe which Duparc jokingly says is the only thing he knows how to do right, he elaborated on his plans for the year ahead.

He plans to reinforce the course activities they already offer (both online and on-site) and improve the training teachers receive as teaching online requires different preparation methods, evaluation and content. He also plans on collaborating with their German counterpart, the Goethe-institut and hopefully organising an European Day of Languages which falls on the last Saturday of September with the participation of various European embassies and high commissions.

鈥淭o offer the best quality service to the Sri Lankan people, this is a major goal and it is very important to us,鈥?Duparc shares.

鈥淎lthough the situation does not seem conducive right now, we wish to expand cultural events first around Colombo and also in other cities especially where we are already established such as Kandy, Jaffna, Matara and Galle. We feel that is it is important to foster French education and culture and we have a few universities who have reached out to us to establish programmes,鈥?added France Ambassador to Sri Lanka and the Maldives, Eric Lavertu.

Asked how they have managed with the constraints imposed due to the COVID-19 pandemic, Duparc said that through a team of experts at Alliance Fran莽aise de Kotte who managed to shift all on-site classes to online, they were able to continue classes and gain students who were unable to travel from far as before. Some 450 students registered for their January intake.

They hope to resume classes by splitting them to half on-site and half online thus implementing a hybrid system to meet certain demands of students. Exams will take place as before however with all COVID-19 safety precautions followed.

Cultural events are an obvious challenge; they will have conferences, films and a few programmes online but admit it is not the same as having a good crowd physically present. The much anticipated Spring Festival held to honour the first day of summer in Europe will hopefully go ahead if the situation in the country allows it.

For more information, visit www.alliancefrancaise.lk"
"Disability no barrier for academic excellence Among the thousands of graduates who received their degrees and diplomas at the University of Jaffna Convocation held this week, was Albert Bastian, a person with a disability, who completed his Masters in Cultural Studies. UoJ Vice Chancellor S. Srisatkunarajah, taken up with the efforts of Mr. Bastian, kneels down and hugs him for his academic achievement. Pic by N. [...]

COVID numbers to be reviewed, before WP schools given the all clear to reopen The Health Ministry will review the current number of COVID-19 cases in view of the current vaccination programme underway, to decide on reopening of Western province schools for all classes, a senior Education Ministry official said recently. The Education Ministry has sought clarification from the Health Ministry regarding the reopening of Western province schools for [...]

Teacher unions to take action for salary anomalies once again: CTU The teacher unions will collectively disrupt education in schools from March onwards if the Government does not heed their requests for a revision of their salary anomalies, the Ceylon Teachers Union (CTU) said last week. CTU General Secretary Joseph Stalin said the request for the salary revisions had been postponed for several years by consecutive governments and [...]

A new research and training complex for UoJ鈥檚 Agriculture Faculty A new research and training complex for the University of Jaffna鈥檚 Agriculture Faculty was inaugurated on February 5. Education Minister G. L. Peiris, Fisheries Minister Douglas Devananda and Japanese Ambassador Sugiyama Akira attended the opening ceremony along with other dignitaries. The Japanese Government had provided a grant assistance worth Rs. 2.8 billion to build this [...]

Hospital wards allocated for COVID infected O/L students Two wards at the Nawagamuwa Divisional Hospital in Kaduwela have been allocated for COVID infected Ordinary Level (O/L) students from the Colombo district, Colombo District Secretary Pradeep Yasaratne said recently. Many people in the district are presently under quarantine due to COVID infected family members, and there is a possibility of detecting COVID cases among [...]

Request for O/L exam staff to receive COVID vaccines disregarded The health authorities have ignored a request made by the Examination Department to have all teachers and staff who will be working in the Ordinary Level (O/L) examination centres vaccinated. A request from the Examinations Commissioner General to have the 46,000 people working to conduct the 2020 O/L examinations has not been heeded, the Ceylon Teachers Union (CTU) [...]

ELTA-ELSE: A new skills building programme through the AHEAD project The university system of Sri Lanka has begun implementing Enriching Teaching, Learning, and Assessment and English Language Skills Enhancement (ELTA-ELSE) Development Projects (DPs) under the Accelerating Higher Education Expansion and Development (AHEAD) programme. Under this programme, 36 faculties and 44 departments are currently employing the skill-building programme that was introduced under results area 2 of the project. [...]

Teacher Training Programme by ACBT at Sabaragamuwa University English Department of Australian College of Business and Technology conducted a training programme for academic staff of Sabaragamuwa University in November 鈥?December 2020. Over 30 academic staff members representing Department of Economics and Faculty of Management Studies of Sabaragamuwa University participated in the training. This 50-hour training programme was organised under AHEAD: a World [...]

ANC Games Day organised by Red Bull Sri Lanka to Kick Start New Semester Spring 2021 Games Day was the perfect Boost for the students starting a new semester at ANC. Red BullPong, Race till you drop, Carry the Bull, PS4 Tournament, Indoor Golf were some of the games Red Bull Sri Lanka organised for ANC Students, welcoming them for the Fresher鈥檚 event. Over 100 students from U.S & Canada University [...]

Start a globally recognised UK Degree right after O鈥橪evels at AMDT School of Creativity Students with O鈥橪evel can choose from popular Creative degree-level qualifications ranging from Graphic Design, Animation & Visual Effects, Fashion Design, Interior Design, Creative Advertising, Photography, Creative Multimedia, to Web & App Development, (more courses updated at www.amdt.lk). AMDT School of Creativity: the globally recognised Creative School in Sri Lanka. AMDT School of Creativity, being the [...]

TIMUN V Session; Redefining diplomacy, debate and decorum In a time where life has come to a halt and many have had to forgo what they have always known, TIMUN V Session was more than successful in its endeavor to bring together the leaders of tomorrow for the fifth consecutive year. The International Model United Nations has always provided its passionate and skilled [...]

Are You A Worrier or A Warrior? As a youngster I used to constantly worry about my future, as I hardly possessed anything to start a life of my own. Down the line I began to understand that the days I spent worrying had only gifted me with nothing but emptiness, there has been no progress at all in my life during [...]

Why Sri Lankan students are attracted to Sydney While Sri Lankan students who aspire to international study may have found the last 12-months discouraging, they should not lose sight of their goal. Local students have an excellent opportunity to keep their options open without delaying their study pathway. They can prepare for an exciting and formative life experience by beginning their Australian university [...]

Pursuing True Happiness in lives through Higher Education Everyone wants a happy life. The common purpose of life is an individual鈥檚 happiness and social well-being. Great thinkers and researchers have deliberated on finding sources of happiness throughout human history. In the recent past, an increasing focus has been placed on happiness as one of the most sought-after human qualities from an individual-level to [...]

Exceptional Excellence through Empathy at Royal Institute Royal Institute (RI), at her 50th anniversary celebrating excellence, is delighted to announce the astounding academic brilliance displayed by her students at Cambridge International Ordinary Level (OL), Advanced Subsidiary level(AS), and Advanced Level (AL) examinations held in 2020. Although, such scholastic excellence is a familiar experience at RI, the joy, pride, and fulfilment it brings [...]

The unveiling ceremony of the statue of the most Venerable Welivitiye Sri Soratha Thero The Faculty of Technology, University of Sri Jayewardenepura reached a new milestone in the history of the Faculty with a modest ceremony held to unveil the statue of the Most Venerable Welivitiye Sri Soratha Thero. The ceremony took place at the premises of the Faculty of Technology, University of Sri Jayewardenepura, Pitipana, Homagama on the [...]

University of Nicosia Medical School in Cyprus Offers Distance Learning for Masters The University of Nicosia (UNIC) is the largest university in Cyprus and in Southern Europe that teaches primarily in English, with more than 12,000 students from over 70 countries coming together in an innovative and transformative learning space. Located in Nicosia, the country鈥檚 capital, and with a presence in 18 other cities worldwide, UNIC is [...]

Launching the Asian Journal of Management Studies The Faculty of Management Studies (FMS) of the Sabaragamuwa University of Sri Lanka recently launched the Faculty Journal named Asian Journal of Management Studies (AJMS). As an 鈥淎鈥?graded faculty in the Sri Lankan state university system, FMS always attempts to be a knowledge hub for the nation by connecting to a broader network. AJMS, [...]

General Convocation of General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University 2020 General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University witnessed the crowning moment of achievement of the students of the 32nd Intake (04 and 05-year degree programmes), 33rd Intake (04-year degree programmes) and 34th Intake (03-year degree programmes) at KDU General Convocation 2020, held on 17th, 18th and 19thof January 2021 at the BMICH. Fulfilling the requirement of [...]

Start Your Future 鈥?Experience is Everything If you are an enthusiastic individual with a passion for either Hospitality, Cookery, Patisserie, Events or Travel and Tourism then studying in either of these fields will open many global and domestic opportunities. William Angliss Institute @ SLIIT, delivers Australian curriculum that is based on practical skills and knowledge whilst delivering in state-of-the-art facilities. In [...]

Sri Lanka Technological Campus launches country鈥檚 first extensive Research Complex Sri Lanka鈥檚 undisputed pioneer in Engineering & Technological education, Sri Lanka Technological Campus (SLTC), opened its fully-fledged research lab complex at the Padukka Campus premises recently. The event was participated by Chief Guest Minister of Education Professor GL Peiris & Minister of Trade Dr. Bandula Gunawardena, Guest of Honour. Minister of Youth & Sports, Namal [...]

Institute of Chemistry Ceylon recognises the bronze medalists of the International Chemistry Olympiad 2020 Uvidu Praveen Sumanasekara of Badulla Central College, Badulla, Arulanantham Abhinanthan of Hindu College, Jaffna and R M S Ravindu Sanwara of Ananda College, Colombo won Bronze medals at the 52nd International Chemistry Olympiad (IChO) in July 2020. Fourth member of the Sri Lankan team Shakindi Vihanga of Sujatha Vidyalaya, Matara also won an honorable mention. [...]

Bristol Institute opens 3rd successive intake The MSc in Accounting and Finance from the University of the West of England, Bristol offered by Bristol Institute of business Management is a professionally oriented qualification which is consistently ranked highly in the major UK league tables. The qualification designed to help gain the skills, knowledge and confidence to operate efficiently in today鈥檚 fast [...]

Save the Children and Goethe-institut against Online Violence The pandemic changed our way of communicating. Online platforms became a trend and replaced traditional way of meeting up and communicating. On one side this brings along many advantages, however, the youth is also exposed to new forms of danger. The Online Violence Campaign project organised by Goethe-institut Sri Lanka and Save the Children Sri [...]"
"Colombo International Women鈥檚 Film Festival for 3rd time Awards first woman music director Sujatha Attanayake View(s): View(s):

For the successful third year Colombo International Women鈥檚 Film Festival was held from November 26 to December 6 at Goethe-institut, Colombo.

Festival was opened with streaming of the Malayalam film 鈥楽tand up鈥?by Vidhu Vincent and the festival was concluded with the screening of 鈥楶apicha鈥?by Mounia Meddour (France-Algeria). This year鈥檚 Country Retrospective focused on films by German female filmmakers from 1967-1998. Feature films, documentaries and short films by female filmmakers from Sri Lanka, India, Bangladesh, France, Germany, Algeria, Armenia, Australia, Portugal, Italy and UK were screened in the competition sections and non-competitive sections at the festival. Lux -The International Arts Agency collaborated with British Council to present an online event 鈥榃e are here: Radical Intimacies鈥?

The Best Short Film (International) was won by Indian filmmaker Surbhi Dewan for her direction 鈥楢n Open sky鈥? While 鈥業maginary Homes鈥?by Priya Naresh (India) received a Special Jury Mention, other nominations were , 鈥業 am sad鈥?by LilithAltunyan (Armania-France) and 鈥楩altu Lok鈥?(The Duffer) by Antara Banerjee (India).

In the category of Best Short Film 鈥?National Navayuga Kugarajah won the award for her 鈥楶ottu鈥?while Special Jury Mention was received by IrushiTennekoon for her

鈥楢nimate Her: Thaji Dias on Traditional Dance鈥? The other nomination was 鈥楾hawa masa dekayi鈥?(Two months) by Nilmini Perera.

Outstanding Performances

n Samridhi Dewan for performance as Jeevika in An Open Sky (India)

n Sushma for performance as Ela in Imaginary Homes (India)

n Bimsara Premaratna for her performance as the mother in 鈥楾wo Months鈥?(Sri Lanka)

n Sharon Pracy for her performance as the daughter in 鈥楶ottu鈥?(Sri Lanka)

鈥淭hree years ago, with the active participation of a group of prominent female producers, actors and few other industry professionals, we launched Colombo International Women鈥檚 Film Festival in Sri Lanka. Our aim was to create a platform for female filmmakers and other female industry professionals in the country and beyond. During the last two years, festival provided an opportunity to recognize the work of female filmmakers and focus on some of the key issues in relation to women and girls in the region and beyond,鈥?Anomaa Rajakaruna, Artistic Director of ColomboIWFF said.

鈥淒ue to the challenges presented the by the Covid-19 pandemic, during the last 11 days we presented the third edition of the festival in a hybrid format with online and physical screenings as well as workshops and masterclasses.

Globally, women in film were running a campaign during the last few years, asking for equal opportunities. It鈥檚 known as 50/50 by 2020 campaign. Today, almost at the end of 2021, we are still debating the women鈥檚 position in the film industry, underrepresentation of female directors at many major festivals, and the lack of gender equality in terms of access to the industry, training, funding for film production and working conditions,鈥?Ms. Rajakaruna said. Awards were presented to the winners on the closing day. Representing the partners of the festival, Director Goethe-institut, Colombo Stefan Winkler and Director, British Council Maarya Rehman attended the awards ceremony. Other partners of the festival are Embassy of France, Alliance Fran莽aise, Embassy of Italy, Women鈥檚 Political Academya and Sarasavi Cineru.

International Relief Fund for Organizations in Culture and Education 2021 of the German Federal Foreign Office, the Goethe-institut and other partners supported the training programmes for women and girls during the festival.

The first female Music Director in Sri Lankan Cinema Visharad Dr. Sujatha Aththanayaka was awarded the Lifetime Achievement Award.

In 1976 she composed music for the film 鈥?Hariyata Hari鈥? She is the only Sri Lankan vocalist to perform in eight languages in South Asian Cinema such as Hindi, Tamil, Urdu, Telugu,Malayalam, Marathi, English and Nepali. She has over 6000 songs to her credit as a vocalist and in over 400 films as a playback singer for 3 generations of Sri Lankan actors. She completed her master鈥檚 degree and Visharad Exam at Lucknow College of Music in India aswas awarded with Doctor and Philosophy for Fine Arts from the University of Visual and Performing Arts in 2019. Citation for the lifetime award was read by composer and Music Director Gayathri Khemadasa and award was presented to Dr. Aththanayaka by veteran actor Veena Jayakody. This year the International Jury for the National and International Short Film Competitions included Melanie Iredale (UK) (President of the Jury), Renee LK Eastbrooks (USA) and Farzana Haniffa (Sri Lanka).

Share This Post FacebookTwitterEmail 脳 Send Email to Friend











Send Please enter valid email WhatsappDeliciousDiggGoogleStumbleuponRedditTechnoratiYahooBloggerMyspaceRSS"
"By Ashanthi Warunasuriya

The first Confucius Institute (CI) was opened in 2004 in South Korea, and according to official data there were 548 Confucius Institutes around the world by the end of last year, as well as 1,193 Confucius classrooms based in primary and secondary schools.

The number of CIs worldwide reached more than 858 by May 2012, including 358 Confucius Institutes and 500 Confucius Classrooms. In addition to those in United States, there are, for example, 83 CIs located in 30 Asian countries, 122 CIs in European countries and 25 CIs in Africa. The CIs operate within established universities, colleges, and secondary schools around the world, providing funding, teachers and educational materials. By borrowing the name Confucius, the CI created a brand that was instantly recognized as a symbol of Chinese culture, radically different from the image of the Communist Party.

The stated aim of the program is to promote Chinese language and culture, support local Chinese teaching internationally, and facilitate cultural exchanges. Some people even mistakenly regard CIs as religious institutions or a unit devoted to the study of Confucianism. Open to the general public, Confucius Institutes promote Chinese language but also run classes in culture, from calligraphy and cooking to tai chi. They sponsor educational exchanges and hold public events and lectures. Backed by significant government funding, China aims to have 1,000 such institutes by 2020 in what it calls a 鈥淐onfucius revolution鈥?to tap into the growing overseas demand to learn Chinese.

Since the Communist Party of China doesn鈥檛 have a free press or rule of law to check its use of power, it is no surprise that there have been strong indications that CIs are used for inappropriate covert activities like intelligence gathering, and facilitating military research. Human Rights Watch said in its 2019 report on China: 鈥淐onfucius Institutes are extensions of the Chinese government that censor certain topics and perspectives in course materials on political grounds, and use hiring practices that take political loyalty into consideration.鈥?
Officials from China have compared Confucius Institutes to language and culture promotion organizations such as Portugal鈥檚 Instituto Cam玫es, Britain鈥檚 British Council, France鈥檚 Alliance Fran莽aise, and Germany鈥檚 Goethe-institut鈥攕everal of them named for an iconic cultural figure identified with that country, as Confucius is identified with China. Some commentators argue, unlike these organizations, many Confucius Institutes operate directly on university campuses, thus giving rise to what they see as unique concerns related to academic freedom and political influence.

Confucius Institutes are used as a form of 鈥渟oft power鈥?by China, (In politics and particularly in international politics, soft power is the ability to attract and co-opt, rather than coerce) and the Chinese government spends approximately $10 billion a year on CIs and related programs to exercise these initiatives. Chinese Communist Party general secretary Xi Jinping in 2013 stated that the intentions are to 鈥済ive a good Chinese narrative鈥? Being affiliated with the Chinese Ministry of Education, CIs have received increasing skepticism over its censorship of content taught, such as topics related to individual freedoms and democracy, Taiwan, Tibet and Xinjiang.

Criticism

Confucius Institutes have been critiqued for repeatedly straying from their publicly declared key task of providing Mandarin Chinese language training and for venturing into deep ideological territory. There is mounting evidence that the institutes鈥?learning materials distort contemporary Chinese history and omit party-induced humanitarian catastrophes such as the Great Leap Forward (1958-1961) and the Cultural Revolution (1966-1976) entirely.

There have been a number of reports pointing to controversial incidents in the past, including a former senior Chinese Communist Party official, Li Changchun鈥檚 comment that Confucius Institutes are 鈥渁n important part of China鈥檚 overseas propaganda set-up鈥? Beijing gradually has taken into consideration the quality of each potential institute to better serve the strategic interests involved in China鈥檚 鈥淕oing Global Cultural Diplomacy鈥?and the statement of 鈥淧opularize Chinese Culture around the World鈥?

As contended by noted China expert Steven Mosher, president of the Population Research Institute (PRI), CIs could be 鈥淭rojan horses鈥?that may 鈥渋ndoctrinate young Americans into thinking that the Chinese Party-State will not be a threat to its own people or to the world at large鈥?

The Case of USA

CIs are working with specific institutes for advanced China studies mostly in the United States and in Europe. It is entirely possible that this offers a way to reinforce a favorable impression of China among local epistemic communities. Although the promotion of Chinese language learning throughout the world is seen as part of China鈥檚 effort to accomplish its foreign policy goals through the use of soft power, CIs have been criticized as propagating an idealized version of Chinese history and culture and stifling academic freedom. Recently, academics predicted a crackdown on CIs across the West.

Especially in the US, where nearly 40 percent of CIs are located, members of the US Congress, the director of the FBI and academic advisory groups have gone so far as to accuse the Confucius Institute of being a 鈥渟ubversive鈥?mechanism for increasing China鈥檚 public influence abroad. The Chinese language services provided by the CIs have attracted many universities overseas to establish a CI to meet the high level of demand to learn Mandarin Chinese, with Chinese authorities paying not only for the institutes鈥?operational costs and selected textbooks, but also providing trained Chinese language teachers, the universities can benefit from the financial support to offer Chinese program for students almost for free.

However, criticism occurs about China footing the bill and directly managing the teachers. Critics say CIs are ready-made platforms for the state鈥檚 agenda, promoting an overly rosy image of PRC while discouraging discussion of politics. The anti-CI position occurred in recent times as a consequence of changing ideologies in the West regarding China becoming a main global player, thereby confirming the statement that 鈥渋deologies about language in general have real effects on language policies and practices, and delimit to a large extent what is and is not possible in the realm of language planning and policy making.鈥?
Closing Syndrome

The West also criticizes China鈥檚 unique political system and issues like human rights, etc. Therefore, Western universities intend to govern or limit CIs. This is leading to an anti-CI position regarding CIs as instruments of the Chinese government. Deteriorating relations between Sweden and China have prompted the closing of Confucius institutes and classrooms ending of partnerships. The moves have been prompted by growing concern in Sweden over security, human rights and the jailing in China of a Chinese-born publisher with Swedish citizenship. The Times in London wrote on 21 April that Sweden was believed to be the first country in Europe to close all Confucius institutes and classrooms.

Relations between the two countries have become increasingly restless over several years. There are various issues emanating from Swedish alarm over Chinese takeovers of local companies; security concerns; human rights abuses and repression in China. One of Belgium鈥檚 leading universities has decided to close the Chinese state-funded Confucius Institute on its campus, following accusations that the former head professor conducted espionage for China.

There have also been calls in nearby South Korea for greater scrutiny of Confucius Institutes. This month a small group, Citizens for Unveiling Confucius Institutes, protested outside the Chinese Embassy in Seoul against the existence of CIs in South Korea. Japan has become the latest country to say it will investigate the operations of Chinese Confucius Institutes on university campuses in the country."
"The one that got away 鈥?Tashiya de Mel A.S.H. Smyth interviews the environmental photographer and advocate on the greatest shot she never got... and one she did View(s): View(s):

Tashiya de Mel opened her Instagram account, 鈥榣ostinCeylon鈥? in 2017, as a place where people could find inspiration, new places to see, and tips on what to do there. 鈥楢t the start, I just wanted to photograph beautiful landscapes.鈥?
But an intro course to documentary photography proved a turning point, and she decided she wanted to do more with her pictures. She moved away from 鈥榯ravel鈥?per se, and into 鈥榮tuff that people don鈥檛 share when they travel, like pollution and our impacts on these diverse ecosystems and habitats鈥? Now, the angle is more routinely educational for her 6000 largely-Sri Lankan followers. 鈥楾he most basic stuff: food wrappers, beer cans, shampoo packets. People just don鈥檛 get it.鈥?
Hers is a sort of quiet anti-influencing: no monetising, no promotion, very few commissioned trips. She doesn鈥檛 always take pictures, and these days does not identify the remoter, unspoilt places. 鈥業鈥檝e seen what popularising destinations does.鈥?
Occasionally, De Mel鈥檚 environmental interests coincide with her day job as a communications specialist. Her latest work, with the Parrotfish Collective, is part of the #ProtectVidattaltivu campaign, on the degazetting of mangrove forests in the Puttalam District for unsustainable 鈥榓quaculture鈥? or shrimp farming.

The one that got away

鈥楾wo years ago, I was on the last day of a really intense hike in the Knuckles, when a friend got stung just above the eye by a wasp. We hired a van so we could take her to a hospital; but on the way, our guide said 鈥淭here is something that you need to see.鈥?
It was a ghost town. The main structures were there, but all the windows broken, the roofs taken off. As if it had been looted, almost. The name of the town was Pallegama, and it was about to be flooded by a new dam on the Kalu Ganga. The villagers had left 鈥?and this was obviously the last time we would be able to see it.

We walked around a bit, and it was very interesting: abandoned schools and houses and shops, and in the background all these mountains. But we needed to get our friend treated, so we thought 鈥淭his is very cool and surreal,鈥?and then we left. And I sort of forgot about it. It just wasn鈥檛 hugely significant to me at the time.

A few months later, I received a grant from the Goethe-institut to follow my own photography project. I went back to the area, and it rekindled my interest in how this landscape was changing 鈥?the destruction, the relocations, the logging 鈥?and now my long-term documentary project is exploring the ecological and social consequences of hydropower expansion in Sri Lanka. While I was doing my research, I realised that Pallegama was the last town that existed before the inundation. Seeing that in real time is very rare, and it would have been gold if I had documented it. But at the time I had no idea that it would later fit into my photographic project! And now I鈥檒l never have that chance again. It鈥檚 at the bottom of the reservoir.鈥?
The shot that she got

鈥楩unnily, this one also nearly got away. I had just bought my drone, and flown it maybe twice, and I took it up to Talaimannar. We decided to do an early walk to Adam鈥檚 Bridge, to get that morning light.

People know that Mannar is pretty remote and it鈥檚 a different type of landscape, but you really don鈥檛 understand what it looks like till you see it from an aerial perspective. It鈥檚 incredible. So I flew the drone up to its max. height: certainly the highest I had ever flown it. The higher it went the more I was getting these crazy views鈥?And then I lost transmission.

At this point I can鈥檛 see the drone, it鈥檚 so high up; and I鈥檝e been walking while I鈥檓 flying it, so it鈥檚 probably not even close by; and the battery is dying. But at least I knew it wasn鈥檛 over water 鈥?so I thought 鈥淚鈥檓 just gonna bring it down, and hope.鈥?I landed it; but now the drone is white, and the sand is basically white, and it鈥檚 tiny, and the beach is covered with plastic trash. I just have a close-up image of some sand, and I鈥檓 looking around thinking 鈥淗ow the hell am I gonna find this?!鈥?
The feeling that I had lost it 鈥?and those photographs 鈥?was鈥?I can鈥檛 explain. Traumatic. The battery was now down to about 2% or something, so I decided to just get it to take off once more, and hopefully I鈥檇 be able to see it 鈥?and wayyy in the distance I spotted it. I ran to it and literally held it to me. But then I went back and looked at the pictures, and they鈥檙e some of the best I鈥檝e ever taken. They鈥檙e certainly my most-shared. But I鈥檝e never gone that high again with my drone!鈥?
Daily Online Edition of The Sunday Times Sri Lanka,,Humanity & Earth through eyes of six young photographers"



 and humanity in Sri Lanka.

 Andy Spyra

 Munira Mutaher






"The one that got away 鈥?Munira Mutaher A.S.H. Smyth interviews the photographer and documentarian on the greatest shot she never got... and one she did View(s): View(s):

Having gotten used to borrowing her rowing partner鈥檚 camera out on the 4 a.m. lake 鈥?鈥榯aking pictures not-so-seriously for a long time鈥?鈥?the young(er) Munira Mutaher finally got her hands on her own camera just before she started university. She studied journalism (MONASH, Malaysia), and there worked on the student newspaper, as part of the editorial team.

Back in Sri Lanka she became a founder member of both Roar Media and Colombo Design Market, before shifting away into the non-profit/development sector. In 2016 she was offered the chance to work with Sarah Kabir on Voices of Peace, a two-year, in-depth collaboration, interviewing and photographing ex-Sri Lankan military and LTTE personnel.

Since then, she has predominantly worked for GIZ, Germany鈥檚 international development body, on the Archive of Memory initiative, part of their reconciliation programme. She has also been involved with the new Travelling History Museum.

Before the lockdown, Mutaher spent time in the Mountain Province of the Philippines, assisting an anthropological research project; and in March she was selected for a 14-day intensive Goethe-institut trip round museums, studios and exhibits in Germany and Switzerland. Her photographs were most recently part of the 鈥楬umanity & Earth鈥?group exhibition at the Harold Peiris Gallery.

The one that got away

鈥楩or me, missed images usually happen when I鈥檓 travelling with a group of people, and can鈥檛 ask them to stop every five seconds, so in my head I鈥檓 thinking, 鈥淢ental image! Mental image!鈥?I鈥檓 really bad at just blocking that off and telling myself that I鈥檓 not on an assignment right now, so just enjoy the drive.

In 2006, my family went on a part-holiday, part-pilgrimage to Yemen. We鈥檇 bought one of those basic family-trip Olympus pocket cameras, and basically it just didn鈥檛 function. You would take a couple of photos, and then at some point, whenever it felt like it, it would suddenly corrupt and you鈥檇 lose all the photographs. So now we鈥檙e in Yemen, and we have this camera that鈥檚 just serving no purpose. We were taking all these pictures, and it was fun, but you鈥檇 never get to see them, so鈥?
Then I remember we were in a bus one day, on a long-distance drive from one town to another, and I was looking out of the window, just watching the scenery go by, and then suddenly there was this lady, dressed head to toe in an abaya. The abaya is black, and in Yemen, between the towns, the terrain is really just barren, rocks, shades of brown and earth: so you see this very stark, black silhouette鈥?and she鈥檚 just rolling this gigantic tyre along the side of the road.

The thing is, I don鈥檛 remember if I ever actually took that picture with the camera, or if I just took it in my mind. Either way, I still would not have had it now. But I鈥檝e revisited that picture a lot. And I do remember, in that moment, realising I had started seeing things in 鈥榝rames鈥? looking at 鈥榠mages鈥? and thinking about how I鈥檇 take a 鈥榮hot鈥? I think that was probably pretty much the point I got into photography.鈥?
The shot that she got

鈥楢s part of the 鈥楬umanity & Earth鈥?project, we visited Dr Ranil Senanayake鈥檚 analog forestry project, in Belipola. Everything there is organic, an entire model forest based on avoiding unsustainable relationships with our environment 鈥?and then right round the corner, a short walk down the road, is this huge open-cast granite quarry! Big trucks going up and down all day.

I convinced one of the local women who worked at the project to go with me and take a look, but she was very nervous about it: she had never gone beyond this point in the road. So we go in, and it鈥檚 this really tough, gritty environment, all these men hard at work, the scale of the whole thing 鈥?and then you鈥檙e there, this girl with a camera.

Obviously the workmen want to know what you are doing there. But I was also feeling a bit bold 鈥?maybe they didn鈥檛 want people seeing what they were doing here, maybe it was illegal; but I didn鈥檛 feel like we would come to any harm 鈥?and I wanted to test out how this situation would unfold.

Whenever you get groups of people 鈥?especially young men 鈥?they tend to get a bit excited and say, 鈥淭ake my picture! Take my picture!鈥?Almost like they鈥檙e teasing you. They see a young girl and they think they can just play the fool. But that can be fun (and also you can get a lot of pictures) 鈥?so I just went along with it, responding to them, and then one guy said, 鈥淲hy don鈥檛 you take a picture of me?鈥?
The truck is being loaded, and this guy鈥檚 in the driver鈥檚 seat, with one arm out of the window: acting like a real pandit, because he felt entirely in charge. He probably expected me to just shyly click because he asked me to. But instead I really got into it, moving around and looking serious 鈥?and so the dynamic suddenly changed. He became really friendly, we started chatting, and I stayed there for at least another hour.

When I took the photo I鈥檇 thought I was just humouring him. But actually this is one of the times I鈥檝e felt I got the picture right, in the process as well as in the final outcome. It became a much more genuine interaction, and so more importantly it didn鈥檛 feel extractive. And then I checked my photos at the end of the day, and I thought, 鈥淵ou know what, that鈥檚 a good picture.鈥濃€?
Times Online - Daily Online Edition of The Sunday Times Sri Lanka,2025-10-20 00:00:00,Out of darkness and decay come light and style When Lavan Sornarajah asked architect Godridge Samuel to transform the small apartment bequeathed by his grandfather"

 Korona kaaley! These times of corona





 has been a great source of inspiration

 everything ready 鈥?when the photographer didn鈥檛 materialise. So Radhakrishnan shot the entire thing on her phone (at this point she did not yet own a camera) and [...]

 cities



 China and Ethiopia vying for top spots on the global tree planting rankings. However



 Leela Dharmasiriwardana


"Tour guides gain insights into our colonial architectural heritage By Meleeza Rathnayake View(s): View(s):

Whilst enhancing the communication competency of German speaking tourist guides and lecturers, the Goethe-institut recently conducted a two-day interactive workshop focused on imparting an understanding and appreciation of the country鈥檚 architectural heritage in colonial times. It also included some insights into Tropical Modern architecture from Minette de Silva to Geoffrey Bawa.

The workshop was headed by Director of the Samkathana Research Centre and Archive at the University of Kelaniya, Professor Asoka de Zoysa, Head of the Language Department at the Goethe-institut, Rakitha Karunaratne and Corinne Lecomte.

In a series of exercises the German speaking tour guides were trained to improve and communicate their knowledge professionally and effectively through interactive and practical sessions. On the second day the group headed out of Colombo to gain some insights into the country鈥檚 colonial heritage through sites in Kalutara, Galle and Katulawa 鈥?visiting heritage houses in the western and southern coast and in Colombo.

It has been a difficult time for the tourism industry, which has been hard hit by the pandemic. 鈥淚t is not only due to the pandemic outbreak, but national tourist guide lecturers have been going through adversity since the April 21st attacks and it has affected our lives in many ways,鈥?senior tourist guide lecturer and the head of Travel Design, Ruwan Jayasekara said.

鈥淭he main target ( of this workshop) is to enhance their German language proficiency and to give them an idea of tourist attractions that are less known, yet play a vital role in the Sri Lankan heritage,鈥?said Rakitha Karunaratne.

鈥淭here are more places than Dambulla and Sigiriya and there鈥檚 more than tea and rubber that foreign tourists should know about,鈥?added Prof. Asoka de Zoysa. He cited Richmond Castle in Kalutara which has a very long history. 鈥淚t is all documented and it is all over the internet but nobody reads. 鈥楬ow to present that long history?鈥?is the question that the tourist guide lecturers were trained for during the field trip.鈥?
Two female tourist guide lecturers Nisha Rodrigo and Kumudini Klaus were also present at the event.

鈥淐olonial buildings are everywhere wherever we go, so it is our responsibility to learn about the architectural heritage in the country, to communicate and convey the correct message to tourists. This workshop has helped us to gain a lot of knowledge. Due to the pandemic, for the past six months we haven鈥檛 had any work. It feels good to come and do something related to our career,鈥?said Nisha, an experienced tourist guide lecturer."
"In 2020, Germany will celebrate the 250th birthday of Ludwig van Beethoven, arguably her most famous citizen, with the whole world. The Chamber Music Society of Colombo in association with the Goethe-institut, Colombo, will begin the yearlong celebration of the maestro鈥檚 music with a concert on 26 January at the Goethe-institut Hall.

Ludwig van Beethoven

The celebrations will span the entire year and will include concerts, talks and workshops devoted to Ludwig van. The first concert will be devoted to the Bonnmeister鈥檚 chamber music. Sonatas, trios and his much-neglected vocal music will be presented.

Beethoven鈥檚 Piano Trio Op. 1 No. 1 (written for piano, violin and cello) was first performed in 1795 in the palace of Prince Lichnowsky, to whom it is dedicated. The trio was published in 1795. Despite the Op. 1, No. 1 designation, this trio was not Beethoven鈥檚 first composition; this distinction belongs rather to his Dressler Variations for keyboard (WoO 63). However, he clearly recognised this composition as the earliest one he had produced that was substantial enough (and marketable enough) to fill out a first major publication to introduce his style of writing to his peers and the public.

Violin Sonata No. 1 in D Major, Op. 12



Beethoven learned to play the violin as a child and mastered the piano as an adult. His intense understanding of both instruments, and ability to combine them with remarkable innovation and originality, is heard in the ten sonatas he wrote for the combination.



In this concert, we will hear the vivacious first sonata, where you will hear the violin and piano engaging in an absorbing and diverse discourse.



It would probably come as a surprise to most classical music lovers to learn that the folksong arrangements form the largest body of work produced by the Master of Bonn, it is in fact true. There are over 160 of them. And most of these are arrangements of Scottish, Irish, Welsh, and British songs. The idea for these folksong arrangements came from a Scotsman named George Thomson (1757-1851) of Edinburgh. Thayer in his classic biography of Beethoven tells us that Thomson 鈥渄istinguished himself by tastes and acquirements which led to an appointment to the 鈥楤oard of Trustees for the Encouragement of Arts and Manufacture in Scotland鈥? He was, especially, a promoter of all good music and an earnest reviver of ancient Scottish melody.鈥?To this end he engaged some of Europe鈥檚 foremost composers, Haydn, Pleyel, and Beethoven, to compose instrumental sonatas and song arrangements using Scottish melodies.



This concert will feature a selection that were written for voice and piano trio, the songs will be announced from the stage.



Performing will be principals of the CMSC, Ramya Perera, piano, Sulara Nanayakkara, violin, Saranga Cooray, cello, Harin Amirthanathan, tenor. The concert will be moderated by the Artistic director of the CMSC, Lakshman Joseph-de Saram.



The concert is on 26 January at 7 p.m. at the Goethe-institut Hall.



Tickets available at the venue. Rs. 1,000, un-reserved."
"Train-the-Trainer course certificate holders

The Delegation of German Industry and Commerce in Sri Lanka (AHK Sri Lanka), in cooperation with the Deutsche Gesellschaft f眉r Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) GmbH and Goethe-institut Sri Lanka, has coordinated and certified the 2nd 鈥楢dA International Basic 鈥?Train-the-Trainers鈥?course.



The course was conducted by ISO-certified trainer Edwin Lemke, from 24 to 29 February, thereby further supporting companies in Sri Lanka to adopt a more industry-driven vocational training approach and advancing TVET overall in Sri Lanka.



The training course was designed for trainers, mentors, as well as TVET teachers and HR and training managers, who are interested to obtain a certified qualification as an in-company trainer. A crucial element for successful on-the-job training is the qualification and ability of the trainer, as he or she is at the core of imparting relevant skills and knowledge to the trainees or staff learning a new profession. Trainers must be on solid footing, professionally and pedagogically, to inspire enthusiasm in young people and to ensure they learn the right skills for the job.



In Germany, the trainer qualification is ensured through the 鈥楻egulation for Trainer Aptitude鈥?(AEVO), and the relevant skills and knowledge are implemented via the so called 鈥楢dA Training鈥?(Ausbildung der Ausbilder 鈥?Train the Trainer). The assessment and issuing of the AdA certificates to successful trainers in Germany is done by the Chambers of Commerce and Industry (IHK). AHK Sri Lanka, as the official representatives of the German chambers in Sri Lanka, offers the AdA Training and examination, which is internationalised and based on standards set by the Association of German Chambers of Industry and Commerce (DIHK).



The 12 participants in the AdA training in February acquired basic knowledge of the core areas of Dual Vocational Training (industry-driven in-company training as practiced in Germany) and different learning styles, as well as the skills to design, prepare and conduct effective on-the-job training sessions 鈥?with the help of specific instruction techniques and methods to break to complex tasks 鈥?for their companies鈥?trainees and new staff. The training was carried out by Edwin Lemke, an experienced ISO-certified trainer in this field, who makes use of an optimising and activating method mix. After the training, the participants had to pass a multiple-choice examination as well as a practical test, including an expert discussion with the AHK Sri Lanka AdA Examination Board. Only examinees who passed both exams receive the German certificate.



The training was well-received by participants from companies such as Dimo, Nikini, INSEE, Wurth, as well as participants from the Coastline Foundation and TVEC in Maldives.



AHK Sri Lanka, in cooperation with GIZ and trainer Edwin Lemke are currently working on an 鈥楢dA Advanced鈥?training, as a follow up course. The training will be conducted, most likely during the period September to November 2020, as a blended learning format, with online modules via webinar, as well as three days on-site training with Lemke in Sri Lanka.



The Delegation of German Industry and Commerce in Sri Lanka (AHK Sri Lanka) is part of the German Chamber Network abroad of more than 140 offices around the world. The Delegations of German Industry and Commerce represent the interests of German businesses in their partner countries. One interest of a fruitful and sustainable bilateral cooperation is vocational education and training, hence AHK Sri Lanka is actively working on expanding its activities 鈥?besides the already existing AdA Training, certification of DIMO鈥檚 three-year Automobile Mechatronics Training and the VET Council 鈥?to support industry-driven in-company vocational training in Sri Lanka."
"At 7 p.m. at the Goethe-institut Hall

The acclaimed series of classical music concerts at the Goethe-institute continues with the Chamber Music Society of Colombo (CMSC) presenting Bela Bart贸k鈥檚 44 Violin Duets on 25 August at 7 p.m. The concert will be held at the Goethe-institut Hall.



Violin duos and duets are an essential part of the chamber music repertory. Is there a difference between a violin duo and a violin duet? Yes, the former is for two solo violins exclusively, and the latter can have supplementary accompaniment, usually a basso-continuo or an orchestra.



There are several different types of duos and duets in classical music; you can have violin-viola, violin-cello, viola-cello, and many other variations with different instrument families. Even with all of the available varieties, instrumental duos are rather rare: they are underplayed, under-recorded, and quite underappreciated.



The solo violin-violin duo repertory is relatively small. That said, this form rose in popularity in the twentieth century as composers began to compose chamber music for much smaller ensembles. A reason for this is that with two significant world wars, many musicians were either fighting or were casualties of war.Since they were composed in the 20th Century, many of the violin duos by Honegger, Bart贸k, and Prokofiev are more harmonically and structurally experimental than the standard classical fare. Moderating and performing will be the Artistic Director of the CMSC, Lakshman Joseph-de Saram and Principals of the CMSC, Ursula Nelius, violin. Haasinee Andree, violin and Sulara Nanayakara, violin. The duets will also feature select students of Ursula Nelius and Haasinee Andree.



Interspersing the Bart贸k will be the neo-Baroque Violin and Cello duets by Russian 20th Century composer Reinhold Gli猫re, performed by Lakshman Joseph-de Saram and Rochana Ramanayaka, cello. Tickets available at the Goethe-institut from 5 August; Rs. 1,000, first come, first served."
"Colomboscope: A brush with marine life By Sandev Handy View(s): View(s):

Art festivals have historically offered possibilities for strengthening, and galvanizing local and regional identities, to artistically influence and advocate for social change. Yet as they grow in scale, absorbing powerful, private and state financial interests, they have a reputation for becoming platforms where cultural impact becomes replaced by cultural spectacle. The sixth edition of Colomboscope however, has decidedly taken a different path. Independently organised by the team Festival Works, 鈥淪ea Change鈥?invites over 30 visual artists, filmmakers, musicians, cultural practitioners, scientific experts and the public into a sustained and stimulating dialogue.

Many events at the festival will feature immersive interventions into Sri Lanka鈥檚 geographic diversity and its interactions with society. Cooking Sections (Daniel Fern谩ndez Pascual and Alon Schwabe) 鈥?a duo of spatial practitioners based out of London, will ask what it means to be a Climavore, hosting a performative dinner event prepared with foraged ingredients from mangrove wetlands in Sri Lanka. Diners at 鈥淐limavore: On Mangroves & Mudflats鈥?will sit among branches and roots, to imagine an eventuality of an infrastructure of food production and consumption, that would emerge as a result of man-induced climatic events.

Danish artist S酶ren Dahlgaard will host a participatory performance that involves an inflatable island along the beach where participants may encounter and engage in collective movements with the floating sculpture drawing attention to the threats facing Sri Lanka鈥檚 marine ecology.

A Youth Forum with the Blue Resources Trust and the German Embassy, will provide a platform for young conservationists, artists and nature enthusiasts to share knowledge about marine archaeology, and coastal conservation efforts. The forum will be hosted by marine biologists Nishan Perera and Daniel Fernando as they document the beauty, threats, and conservation of coral reefs and manta rays in Sri Lanka. A beach clean-up at the Dehiwala beach will be part of this effort.

Looking at the island鈥檚 trade and seafaring histories, the TBA鈥?1 Academy at the Goethe-institut on January 25 titled The Ocean is on Air will lead artists, scientists, and thought-leaders in fostering a deeper understanding of the ocean and creative solutions to its most pressing issues. Conceived by Chus Mart铆nez in collaboration with festival curator Natasha Ginwala and Julieta Aranda, the event will screen documentary series by the Inhabitants to tackle the subject of deep-sea mining and a better understanding of the ocean floor. Bangladeshi artist Shadman Shahid鈥檚 鈥淎nother day in Paradise鈥?features photographs of the coral landscape and communities of St. Martin Island, an eight-kilometre island in the northeastern Bay of Bengal that seemingly materialized out of nothing after an earthquake hit the Bay of Bengal a few centuries ago. Subsequently settled on, its fragile ecology has endured a tourism boom, coral bleaching and escalating violence between the fishing community and has been estimated to disappear by 2050.

The Many Headed Hydra formed by artist Emma Haugh and curator Suza Husse in dialogue with Lankan artists, graphic designers, and writers will present a collaborative feminist and decolonial art project. Meanwhile, Sissel Tolaas, a smell researcher, artist, chemist, and smell theorist will present her smell archive of olfactory information collected in the Southern and Western coastline of Sri Lanka. She will also host children鈥檚 workshops that relate collective memory to scent, address the dangers of pollutants and explore the shared heritage of marine resources.

Bookended by the musical performances Eternal Tides and Samudram, Hania Luthufi brings together various musicians to musically interpret various temperaments of the sea.

Port infrastructure and urban development along the coast, is yet another essential component to having holistic conversations around the topic of Sea Change. Robin Meier will compose a performance cycle dedicated to the wild birds of Slave Island. Meier鈥檚 daily performance with local musicians, Collective Feeding sees crows, mynahs and many other bird species, dialogue with humans.

The Taste Karathth茅, an animated public installation by artist Firi Rahman will be on the move between Rio Complex and Galle Face Green. Through oral histories, it catalogues the degradation occurring within water-based ecosystems as a result of rapid urban growth and commercial infrastructural development. Fort Trails- Chryshane Mendis鈥檚 heritage tour meanwhile will trace colonial-era buildings and hidden locations in the Colombo Fort, unveiling their layered histories.

Colomboscope will be held from January 25-31 from 10 a.m. to 7 p.m. at the Rio Complex and Barefoot Gallery and the festival night venue, B52 at the Grand Oriental Hotel from 6 p.m. to 11 p.m. For more information visit www.colomboscope.lk

See also www.sundaytimes.lk for an exploration into the Colombo鈥檚 port鈥檚 history as a preview to the festival"
"Power and prowess of females in cinema By Susitha Fernando Colombo International Women鈥檚 Film Festival View(s): View(s):

Celebrating the International Women鈥檚 Day this year, a collection of acclaimed national and international movies are now being screened at the National Film Corporation theatre and several foreign cultural institutions in Colombo.

The Colombo International Women鈥檚 Film Festival (CIWFF), officially started on February 28, will run till March 7. On the final day country鈥檚 most experienced female filmmaker Sumithra Peries who has immensely contributed to country鈥檚 cinema will be awarded with the first ever Lifetime Achievement award of CIWFF.

The films will be shown daily at 3.30pm, 6.15pm and 9.00pm.

On March 3, at 3.30 pm short film 鈥楾radition鈥?by Lanka Bandaranayaka and renowned Indian filmmaker Deepa Mehta鈥檚 newest film 鈥楢natomy of Violence鈥?will be screened at the NFC cinema. The film screening will be followed by a discussion on violence against women. At 6.15 short film 鈥楤less this Home鈥?by Randi Pavithra Kaluarachchi and German film 鈥?4 Weeks鈥?by Anne Zohra Berrached will be screened at the NFC.

At the Goethe-institut, Colombo, at 9 pm 鈥楳aid for sale鈥? a documentary film by Dima al -joundi (Lebonan) followed by 鈥?th of February鈥? a Sri Lankan documentary by Nadya Perera will be screened.

The screening on March 4 will be opened with Anomaa Rajakaruna鈥檚 鈥楻econciling Sri Lanka鈥?and Fathima Shanaz鈥檚 documentary 鈥楬alal鈥?(Sri Lanka) will be screened at 3.30 pm at the Goethe-institut. At 6.15 pm short film 鈥楰ali鈥檚 Daughter鈥?by Shashini Gamage and French film 鈥楥amille redouble 鈥?by No茅mie Lvovsky will be screened at NFC cinema. At 9 pm, short film 鈥楲ike ekak damuda?鈥?by Ajantha Wijewardhana and 鈥業 Dont Feel at home on Internet any more鈥?by Anam Abbas (Pakistan) will be screened at the Goethe-institut, Colombo.

On March 5, Brazilian short film 鈥楢lice鈥檚 Song鈥?by B谩rbara Cariry and 鈥楤okul鈥?by Reema Borah (India) will be screened at 3.30 pm at the Goethe-institut, Colombo and at 6.15 pm short film 鈥楲ove vs love鈥?by Pavithra Damunugahakumbura and the British film

鈥楳ary Shelley鈥?by Haifaa Al-Mansour will be screened at the NFC cinema. At 9 pm three Sri Lankan short films 鈥楾he Life I Used to live鈥?by Fayaz Mahroof,

鈥榃aves Interrupted鈥?by Dimon John and 鈥榃ind Through the holes鈥?by Roshan Edward will be screened at the Goethe-institut, Colombo.

On March 6, American blockbuster movie 鈥楽uper Woman鈥?will be screened at 3.30 pm at the American Center, Colombo and at 6.30 pm short film 鈥楳y Favourite Colour is blue鈥?by Niranjala Kumarasinghe and Sumathy Sivamohan鈥檚

鈥楽ons and Fathers鈥?will be screened. At 9 pm Nadeeka Bandara鈥檚 鈥楻ed Shoes鈥?will be screened at the Goethe-institut, Colombo.

On the final day March 7, French film 鈥楯acquot de Nantes鈥?by Agn猫s Varda will be screened at 3.30 pm at Alliance Fran脟aise de Kotte and Sumitra Peries鈥檚 latest film 鈥榁aishnavee鈥?will be screened at NFC cinema as the closing film of the festival."
"Meet up with Cinnamon Colomboscope organisers View(s):

Cinnamon Colomboscope, the multidisciplinary contemporary arts festival invites artists, designers, architects, inventors, innovators, performers, musicians, film-makers, theorists and environmentalists who are interested in participating in this year鈥檚 festival to join the organisers for a meet-up and an exchange of creative knowledge.

This year Cinnamon Colomboscope will foreground the environment and its intersection with arts, culture and innovation under the theme Re/Evolution. The casual meet-up will have a few presentations/talks from creatives and environmentalists to aid the exploration into the theme.

鈥淲e believe multi-disciplinary artists bring unique perspectives to express complex issues in imaginative and inspiring ways. Arts and culture as a platform in Sri Lanka, is one that has the power to creatively contribute and find innovative solutions for these defining issues of our time. Join us on Wednesday, April 26 from 6 鈥?8 p.m. at the Goethe-institut, 39 Gregory鈥檚 Road, Colombo 7,鈥?a press release from the organisers said.

For more information, please contact Shanika, shanika@cinnamoncolomboscope.com or menika@cinnamoncolomboscope.com"
"Rupavahini鈥檚 鈥楶inkama鈥?in Greece View(s):

Athula Peiris鈥?one episode teledrama 鈥楶inkama鈥?was shown at the INPUT 鈥?International Public Television Conference in the Greek City of Thessaloniki last week.

Produced by the Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation, 鈥楶inkama鈥?was the only tele production that was selected from Sri Lanka to be shown at the conference presented by Municipality TV 100, the Greek public broadcaster ERT and the Goethe-institut Thessaloniki. It was held at the Olympion Cinema in the heart of the City.

INPUT, a non-profit organisation of public television programme makers and broadcasters, organises the annual conference to discuss and challenge the boundaries of public TV.

The INPUT Conference is hosted by Moderators who are TV professionals appointed by the Board. They also put together the programme of the annual conference based on the programme submissions by the National Coordinators. They are a diverse group who come from different corners of the world and have an equally diverse range of perspectives on the television landscape.

Earlier 鈥楶inkama鈥?was selected for the final round of ABU Prizes 2016. There other plays that were selected for the final round were from Germany, Iran and Vietnam.

The teleplay stars Jayalath Manoratne, Jayani Senanayake, Chandana Irugalbandara and Asadi Dewmini in the lead roles.

Music direction by Navaratne Gamage, camera by Rohana Samaraweera and lighting of 鈥楶inkama鈥?is by Somaratne Perera."
"20 thematic conversation sat Cinnamon Colombo scope 2016 View(s):

The fourth edition of Cinnamon Colomboscope, presented by EUNIC Sri Lanka together with Cinnamon Hotels and Resorts, will host a series of thematic conversations between artists and experts in the art and technology fields. The festival this year is titled Testing Grounds: Art and Digital Cultures in South Asia and Europe and will be held from August 25 to September 1 at the former General Post Office (GPO) in Fort, Colombo.

Art, culture and technology experts will engage in a series of conversations under sub-themes Kaleidoscopia, 鈥楿nder the Cloud and Deep Sensing鈥?

Cinnamon Colomboscope changes shape with a new curator each year, and is a contemporary multidisciplinary arts festival that takes place in Sri Lanka鈥檚 capital Colombo. Testing Grounds was conceived by German curator, Susanne Jaschko, an expert in the field of media arts. This year, the festival will provide 鈥榯esting grounds鈥?for a new liaison between contemporary arts and digital technology in Sri Lanka.

Testing Grounds has been curated under three sub-themes that offer different perspectives of how society and contemporary art is responding to the shift towards digital technology in Sri Lanka and the region. 鈥楿nder the Cloud鈥?is the second sub-theme that will address the de-territorialisation and re-territorialisation of communications technology and 鈥楧eep Sensing鈥? will explore how the developments in the informational environment and new digital technologies offer new ways of sensing.

The festival will see the participation of over 50 Sri Lankan and international artists, of whom several, in addition to presenting their works at the exhibition, will engage in a series of thematic conversations.

Urs St盲heli, Professor of Sociology at the University Of Hamburg, Germany will present Disconnecting: New Forms of Privacy in the Network Society and investigate how privacy can be rethought through the experimentation of new techniques.

This conversation takes place on Saturday, 27 August from 12 noon to 1.00 pm at the GPO.

Networked Life: Don鈥檛 Worry, Everything Is Under Control will explore our relationships with the Network, and how we can maintain a level of privacy and protection over our lives and our information. This conversation is curated and moderated by Sam de Silva, an expert in culture, media and technology, who will speak on this topic with Fieke Jansen, Project Lead of Politics of Data at Tactical Technology Collective (Germany); Bobby Soriano, Programme Advisor for Tactical Technology Collective and Sujit Christy, an information security adoption evangelist and a security and compliance professional. It will take place on Saturday, August 27 from 2.00 to 3.30 pm at the GPO.

Also curated and moderated by Sam de Silva is Fuzzy Power: Navigating the Dark Side of Tech, which looks at how access to powerful communications tools, mobile devices and software platforms has resulted in new ways of harassment in amplifying hate and violence. Hans Billimoria of the Grassrooted Trust and journalists Dilrukshi Handunetti and Nalaka Gunawardena will explore how we can engage and negotiate with a new power that uses digital technologies to target individuals and groups. This conversation will take place on Saturday, August 27 from 4.00 to 5.00 pm at the GPO.

The programme also includes conversations by Jocelyn Robert, Josephine Bosma, Subha Wijesiriwardena, Tobias Revell, Sanjana Hattotuwa, MuniraMutaher, Yudhanjaya Wijeyaratne, Shihar Aneez and Dr. Susanne Jaschko. In addition, the festival will feature an exhibition, a film programme, audio-visual performances, workshops and an online exhibition. Visit the official festival website (www.cinnamoncolomboscope.com) for the schedule and list of artists and speakers.

Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts is the title sponsor of Cinnamon Colomboscope 2016 and the event is organised by EUNIC Sri Lanka comprising of the British Council, Goethe-institut and Alliance Fran莽aise de Kotte. The festival is supported by the John Keells Foundation, Cinnamon Life, Sri Lanka Tourism Promotion Bureau, MBC/MTV, iFilm Sri Lanka, Debug, Embassy of Switzerland, the Netherlands, Turkish, German Embassy and the Universite Laval."
"Public Art, or Taking Art to the Public is a concept CoCA [ Collective of Contempary Artists] is keenly working on. The aim of CoCA is to make Art accessible, thought provoking, influential and impacting to the public, in an effortless everyday situation.

鈥淣ot any Wall not any Bench鈥?is a fun interactive art work created by five established CoCA Artists Layla Gonaduwa, Chinthaka Thenuwara, Poornima Jayasinghe, Branka Ridicky and Lakisha Fernando as a treat for the public. The work is a unique collaboration between professional local and international mixed cultural contemporary visual artists.

Carefully formulated functional installations help the growth of an individual in many ways. It is perceptual, intellectual, emotional, and aesthetically pleasing. The unique master piece is currently installed At the BMICH [The Bandaranaike Memorial International Conference Hall ] Sri Lanka. The work is funded by the Alliance Francaise de kotte. French Spring Festival, scheduled between 21st of July to 29th of July 2013, to provide the platform for CoCA Artists to exhibit their Public Art work.

The art work on the wall creates an illusion which represents the change & movement, our individuality or differences merging into a whole. The colorful bench symbolizes co- existence of individuals. Sitting together also encourages social, religious and ethnic harmony. It encourages dialog. It encourages one to talk to a stranger. It encourages openness and acceptance. It is a backdrop and a place for greater tolerance, greater debate, and a more creative mindset of our people.

This influence will manifest in the character building process, and in this fast paced, ever changing, chaotic world, it is of paramount importance. The Idea that Art can influence & change the way we perceive, question the way we think, nudge our norms and beliefs is fabulous and hopeful., says CoCA Artist Layla Gonaduwa.

According to Chinthaka Thenuwara and Poornima Jayasinghe Public art has the power to energize our public spaces, arouse our thinking, and transform the places where we live, work, and play into more well coming and beautiful environments that invite interaction.

The full potential of Public Art has not been explored to it鈥檚 full capacity in Sri Lanka. Exhibiting the art work in public spaces as a social justice, places accessible to public and used by the public to reveal the discovery of a common heritage and shared ethical values as a popular and informal education method is one of CoCA visions.

This Wall is the stepping stone for the CoCA 鈥淣omads鈥漮ngoing traveling project initiated by the committee members, to explore how cultural traditions interact in diverse locations in Sri Lanka. The next event of the project will be held at the CMC building Pettah, on the 8th ,9th and 10th of August 2013.

It sponsored by the Goethe-institut 鈥?(The Goethe-institut is the cultural institute of the Federal Republic of Germany with a global reach) .

Future projects will expand to divers locations in the island such as Jaffna, Galle fort, Cultural triangle, and the indigenous village Dhabana. 鈥淣ot any Wall not any Bench鈥?will auction soon as a fundraiser for CoCA.

Keep tabbing at www.cocaartists.org /FB 鈥?CoCA Art for more information.



"
"Master keyboard artist Malini Jayasinghe-Peris cut a slim, dignified figure that distant evening, when she performed with the Symphony Orchestra of Ceylon nearly half a century ago. She was then in her mid-thirties. She was draped in a striking black saree with a broad scarlet border and her black hair gleamed like the surface of a new Steinway grand, her hands alighting on the keys and lifting off in light, graceful gestures. The memory of that concert is very clear. Malini Jayasinghe-Peris gives the cue to members of the Chamber Music Society of Colombo at a rehearsal of Mahler's Piano Quartet, which was performed at the Goethe-institut concert. Photo: Indika Handuwela

This was the acclaimed young Ceylonese musician who had made headlines here and gone on to make a name in Europe, competing among some of the world's most promising pianists of the time. Anyone in the country who talked about serious music was talking about Malini Jayasinghe-Peris, the exceptionally gifted pianist with the resonant double-barrel surname. Like cellist Rohan de Saram, she would put Ceylon on the classical music map. At that concert she was the soloist in Beethoven鈥檚 Emperor Concerto, and that was the first time we heard her (she had played the Beethoven Fourth Piano Concerto with the orchestra a couple of years earlier, at the orchestra's debut, but in 1958 we were much too young to be taken to concerts).

The second time we heard Malini Jaya-singhe-Peris, in person, was at last weekend鈥檚 chamber and solo recital, held at the Goethe-institut Colombo. The pianist cuts the same graceful, dignified stage presence she did five decades earlier, but with a minor difference 鈥?this time the effect is topped with a distinguished head of silver hair. The pianist鈥檚 profile, as she takes her place at the piano, is familiar. We had seen this same profile in a photograph on the cover of a long-playing record that had come out in the mid-Sixties. The appearance of the US-made record was the other special occasion our attention was drawn to the Sri Lankan musician, in the half-century interval between the two Malini Jayasinghe-Peris concerts. (The pianist has spent the greater part of her life outside Sri Lanka, mostly in the US, raising a family, teaching, and giving concerts around the world. She has graced concert halls in America, Canada, Britain, Europe, Israel, Russia, China, Australia, India. In fact, to many here, Mrs. Jaya-singhe-Peris鈥?concert appearances in the country of her birth may seem too few and far between.) The long-playing record was an album of works by Debussy, Ravel and de Falla. It was the first time a Ceylonese classical artist had collaborated with a leading international recording label, a cause for local celebration. Radio Ceylon announced a special broadcast of the complete album. The performance sparkled, crackled, exploded. The fierce, stamping, hot rhythms of twentieth-century Spanish music alternated with the strange, misty-aqueous, nocturnal-supernatural worlds of the French Impress-onists. Everything dazzled. One work, Ravel鈥檚 triptych Gaspard de la Nuit, is acknowledged as the most technically demanding work written for the piano ever. The notes danced, rippled and tripped off the pianist鈥檚 fingertips. 鈥淏rilliant鈥?was the general verdict among those sitting by their radios that night.

鈥淏rilliant鈥?is a word Malini Jayasinghe-Peris has heard repeatedly over the years in reference to her playing. It is a compliment that might once have flattered her. Not any more. 鈥淲hen I hear someone say that a recital of mine was brilliant, I think, oh dear, I have failed,鈥?says Mrs. Jayasinghe-Peris. She is reflecting on her life and career as she relaxes on a verandah at the Goethe-institut, after a rehearsal for her Saturday concert. 鈥淚 don鈥檛 play to prompt comments like 鈥榖rilliant鈥? I would be much happier if someone said the music had touched them, reached into their soul. The musician should be only a conduit for the composer鈥檚 intentions. I have evolved as a musician, I like to think. I might once have wanted to excite audiences with clever keyboard work. That is inevitable in young artists on the make. You play to impress. 鈥淔or me, now, music is about conveying what the composer had in his heart, head, soul. His moods, his feelings. Sometimes I feel I accomplish that at a concert, sometimes I feel I haven鈥檛. It鈥檚 not something you have control over. It happens or it doesn鈥檛. That鈥檚 the magic and wonder of music.鈥?Mrs. Jayasinghe-Peris, who usually goes simply as Malini Peris, is a professor of keyboard studies at George Washington University, Washington DC, where she has lived with her family since the Sixties. She has given up music administration and focuses on teaching. She works five days a week instructing eight hand-picked students. Her life as a musician is divided between performing as a soloist and with chamber ensembles and teaching. 鈥淲hen someone says that a recital of mine was brilliant, I think, oh dear, I have failed. I would be

happier if they had said the music had touched them, reached into their soul.鈥?Over the years, Mrs. Jaya-singhe-Peris has noted changes in the perception of classical music among young people. 鈥淭his is the You-Tube generation!鈥?she laughs. 鈥淭he world is moving much faster than it did when I was a young person. Today鈥檚 students want quick results. They have a shorter attention span. They don鈥檛 want to put in the hours, the time, the thought needed for serious music. They are on the move all the time, rushing from one class to another. Music lessons are squeezed into the curriculum like any other subject. There is not enough introspection. That is my running battle with my students. I think of the line from the W. H. Davies poem, 鈥榃hat is this life if, full of care, we have no time to stand and stare.鈥?鈥?There is a tempting aspect to performing before an audience that has to do more with displays of flamboyance than genuine musicianship. It is a weakness young performers easily succumb to. She discourages the tendency in her pupils. 鈥淚 tell them that showing off is not being true to the music. Discover the music, don鈥檛 display yourself. It is difficult not to want to show off if you have a stunning technique. Bravura playing that is only brilliant is not what we want.鈥?But bravura, after all, is part of the package, a key element in propelling a star musician to the top. Malini Jayasinghe-Peris must have shown a healthy blend of both musicianship and bravura when she gave her European debut recital at the Wigmore Hall in 1953, and again two years later when she took part, with 77 other pianists from 25 countries, in the 1955 International Chopin Piano Competition, competing alongside such future greats as Vladimir Ashkenazy and Fou Ts鈥檕ng. The Chopin event in Warsaw is held once in five years and is possibly the most exacting of piano competitions. Mrs. Jaya-singhe-Peris earned an honourable mention that year. It was a high point for the music community in this country. One of our musicians was making her mark on the international stage. In a lifetime devoted to music, Malini Jayasinghe-Peris has moved with some of the biggest names in classical music of the last 60 years. She left Ceylon to study on scholarships, attending the Royal College of Music, and later studying under the Hungarian pianist Louis Kentner, who was her teacher and mentor for 20 years. Kentner was the brother-in-law of the violinist Yehudi Menuhin. 鈥淜entner was more like a father figure,鈥?says Mrs. Jayasinghe-Peris. 鈥淗e would take me along when he and Menuhin and the cellist Gaspar Cassado (who was one of Rohan de Saram鈥檚 teachers) went on vacation to Gstaad, Switzerland. When Menuhin was away, I would take out my violin and play on it (violin was my second study at the Royal College of Music), and when Kentner was away Menuhin would ask me to play Beethoven sonatas with him. Menuhin and Kentner would later record all ten Beethoven violin and piano sonatas. Menuhin also asked me to teach his daughter Zamira the piano, although she wasn鈥檛 that good on the instrument.鈥?(Zamira, a daughter from Menuhin鈥檚 first marriage, would later marry the pianist Fou Ts鈥檕ng, who came third in the 1955 Chopin Internation-al, the competition in which Malini Peris also took part.) Mrs. Jayasinghe-Peris has worked closely with well-known contemporary composers. She travelled to New York to study Ned Rorem鈥檚 third piano sonata with the composer himself, and later gave the work鈥檚 North American premiere. She has worked with Armenian-American composer Alan Hovha-ness and Israeli composer Paul Ben-Haim (鈥淏en-Haim sat on the stage when I performed his sonata in Tel-Aviv鈥?. 鈥淚 played Kodaly to Kodaly,鈥?she says, referring to the Hungarian composer Zoltan Kodaly, who died in 1967. 鈥淚f I am working on something written by a living composer, I try to meet the composer and find out exactly how he wants his music played. It is very hard to get an exact sense of the way contemporary music should be played just from looking at the score. In that sense, contemporary music is not like older classical music.鈥?Malini Jayasinghe-Peris does not look her age (83), and she works the keyboard with the agility and strength of a young virtuoso starting a concert career. In short, she is more than up to the rigours of concert playing, as she demonstrated at last week鈥檚 recital, in which she teamed up with members of the Chamber Music Society of Colombo to play Mahler鈥檚 Piano Quartet and solo works by Liszt, Debussy and Ravel. The solo works were chosen for their associations with water in its manifold moods. The Ravel was the astonishing 鈥淥ndine鈥?(water sprite) episode from Gaspard de la Nuit. 鈥淎ll my life I have been intrigued by water. Water is so versatile. It can be still, flowing, mysterious, romantic, threatening, frightening. One of my favourite books as a child was Longfellow鈥檚 Hiawatha. I was enchanted by the character Min-nehaha, whose name means Laughing Water. My fascination with water as a subject in art and music must have begun with Minnehaha.鈥?Under her strong fingers, the 鈥渨ater music鈥?murmured, rippled, splashed, cascaded, thundered. And, yes, laughed. Audience members gave the pianist a standing ovation. Mrs. Jayasinghe-Peris dedicated the evening to the memory of her cousin, the late Sita Joseph de Saram, 鈥渕usician, teacher, artist and sculptor.鈥?Looking back, the pianist is reminded of people in the Colombo music world whom she knew and worked with before she left Ceylon to start a new life elsewhere. Many of these people are no more, such as her first piano teacher, Irene van der Wall, who died in Australia a couple of years ago, and her first violin teacher, Eileen Prins, who passed away last year. 鈥淲hen I came to your mother for violin lessons, she had recently returned from England. This was before you were born.鈥?It鈥檚 been a long evening for Malini Jayasinghe-Peris, and it鈥檚 time to go. Her cousin鈥檚 son, Lakshman Joseph de Saram, is waiting in the corridor to take her home. We step out into the fragrant Goethe-institut garden. There has been a shower and the lawn sparkles with drops of water. It鈥檚 been a long, wonderful evening for us 颅颅鈥?hearing the pianist play, talk about her life in music, joke (her laugh does suggests 鈥渓aughing water鈥?, and touch chords from the past. Memorable notes, many wistful, hang in the night air, like whiffs of jasmine."
"The largest International Design Exhibition to come to Sri Lanka" - this is how the current exhibition organized by the Goethe-institut in collaboration with the University of Visual and Performing Arts, Department of Architecture of the Moratuwa University and the Academy of Design is billed. The Anti-Design in "Consumer's Rest Lounge Chair" by the Stilleto Studio (1989/90) The exhibition now on at the newly opened J.D.A. Perera Gallery, Horton Place - possibly the most spacious gallery in Colombo focuses on "Consciously Simple" furniture, luminaries and home accessories created by young German designers of the 1980s and 1990s. The lack of colour and surface decoration may initially put off the visitor seeing this kind of "semi finished" creations. Some may miss the compulsory cushions on the chairs, which give the feeling of homely comfort. Sitting on a 'solid' chair turned out of concrete and steel rods designed by Heine H. Landes may seem precarious. Why not try out the 'sensuous relationship' between the material and the person sitting on the chair? The exhibition offers some icons of New German Design (Neue Deutsche Design) collected from many museums and private collections such as the "Consumer's Rest Lounge Chair" by the Stilleto Studio (1989/90), Wolfgang Laubersheimer's "Cable-Stayed Shelf" (1984), and the "Tabula Rasa"(1987), a creation by Uwe Fischer and Klaus-Archim Heine. Viewing this selection, the boundaries created by directors of museums classing some objects as 'Art' and others as 'Artifact' seem meaningless. Chair 'Maggi' (1993) by Beata B盲r, Gerhard B盲r and Harmut Knell Pic by Shade Tree production Heinz H. Lande's "Antler Lamp" (1989) (Geweihleuchter) derives the design for his candle-stand from the antler's head, which was an accessory in the upper middle class German living room in the late 19th century. Dialogues with earlier forms like the lamp "Red/Green" (1993) deriving its conic shapes from the '60s, or using the back rest of the classic "Frankfurt Chair" for children's furniture are most remarkable. The highlight of this exhibition is the "Consumer's Rest Lounge Chair", a satirical comment on the supermarket culture that entices the consumer to come to the cashier with goods crammed in the trolley. The chair 'Maggi' (1993) has used recycled packaging. One may link these satirizing elements and elements of parody to earlier design hidden in the exhibits or just see them as play with material and form and colour. The objects exhibited appeal to many a whim and fantasy - an exhibition well worth a visit. The exhibition which continues till March 2 is open from 10 a.m. to 7 p.m. every day (except poya days). Tickets: Rs 50 (children and students) and Rs. 100 (adults).
"KARACHI: The Goethe-institut Pakistan in cooperation with the Consulate General of the Federal Republic of Germany is hosting a young classical music ensemble, the Arcis Saxophone Quartet, here on a multi-city tour of Pakistan.

The young musicians, based in Munich, are in the middle of a global tour, having previously made stops in Bahrain, Turkey, United States, with the Canary Islands and Italy next, before returning back to Germany.

The group 鈥?consisting of Claus Hierluksch on the soprano saxophone, Ricarda Fuss on the alto saxophone, Edoardo Zotti on the tenor saxophone and Jure Knez on the baritone saxophone 鈥?was upbeat and excited during its first visit to Pakistan, looking forward to introducing western classical music to a local audience. They are slated to perform at the Arts Council on March 9 before moving to Quetta.

On the importance of such endeavours, especially at a time of such political turmoil within the European world, Consul General Holger Ziegeler explained how 鈥渃ultural exchange is the first step towards understanding each other.鈥?
鈥淧articularly when it brings a person鈥檚 face to a different culture, when you hear how somebody perform music, you get an immediate understanding despite the fact that it sounds different,鈥?he told a group of journalists on Monday.

鈥淭he language of music is a language that everybody understands, and that is particularly why I help musicians visit the countries in which I am working.鈥?
Claus Hierluksch shed light on the group鈥檚 current tour and the different cities they鈥檝e been visiting, saying they have been enjoying experiencing different people and cultures, especially observing different countries approaches to music.

On what the group has planned on their return to Germany, he shed light on how it plans to experiment with different genres by collaborating with synchronised dancers, incorporating contemporary ballet into their performances.

He added how they are going to be employing the use of Artificial Intelligence (AI) in the creative process when building out this collaborative piece, delving into questions like whether AI can create art.

鈥淔or the last two years we have been trying to incorporate an element of movement into their performances, and have been trying to create a new genre of music,鈥?he said. 鈥淎I is experimental, especially in classical music, for example, sketches of Beethoven鈥檚 10th symphony have been input into AI to produce a symphony, but with rudimentary results so it鈥檚 very, very new.

鈥淎I, while interesting to experiment with, however, cannot replace actual human effort and research. The imperfection and struggle is what is interesting in the end.鈥?
Zotti added, 鈥淭he addition of AI just makes music and collaboration more inspiring, interesting, and gives us a new avenue of sharing and communicating art.鈥?
The group, speaking about what it is like to tour again and perform in front of a live audience, explained how a physical connection in the moment and connecting with the audience is the most important thing. 鈥淭he audience is an integral part of the experience.鈥?
The group, while in Pakistan, is also looking to collaborate with Pakistani composers, trying to blend the best of both cultures in their attempt to experiment and form new genres.

Copyright Business Recorder, 2022"

"Share:

KARACHI - Consul General of the Federal Republic of Germany in Karachi Holger Ziegeler on Tuesday said that since the poet-philosopher Dr Mohammad Allama Iqbal played a role of bridge for the cultural connection between Germany and Pakistan, our predecessors chose his birthday to sign the cultural agreement between the two countries on November 9, 1961.

鈥楾his leads us to commemorate today on Iqbal Day 60 years of cultural cooperation in addition to this year鈥檚 celebration 70 years of diplomatic relations,鈥?he added. While addressing to a press conference at Karachi Press Club, the Consul General, Director of the Goethe-institut Pakistan Ms Simone Lenz and Chair of the Karachi University鈥檚 Urdu department Prof Dr Tanzeemul Firdous said that Allama Iqbal鈥檚 work promoted the philosophy of self-hood and dealt with the intellectual and cultural reconstruction of the Islamic world, was credited to had given the vision for the creation of Pakistan, whereas Mohammad Ali Jinnah was considered to be the person, who cast this vision into political shape.

They said that the poet-philosopher received his Ph.D degree from the Ludwig-Maximillians-Universitat Munchen Germany in 1908 and that was the greatest historical cultural link existing between Germany and Pakistan. They said that thousands of students every year from Pakistan followed the footsteps of their national philosopher to pursue their higher studies in Germany.

They further said that Dr Allama Iqbal found notable intellectual connections with Kant, Hegel, Goethe and Nietzsche, among others and quoted these German scholars in his prose and poetry many times. 鈥楧r Iqbal paid tribute to Germany in these words: The nature has deputed a special duty to every nation. And according to the nature, the ordering and the arrangement of human knowledge is the duty of German nation.鈥?They said that in order to value the pact and cherish the diamond jubilee, the Goethe-institut Pakistan had produced a facsimile (a true copy) of Allama Mohammad Iqbal鈥檚 doctoral thesis submitted to the Ludwig Maximillians-Universitat Munchen.

Later, they also cut a cake to mark the birthday of poet-philosopher Dr Mohammad Allama Iqbal.

Meanwhile, Vice Chancellor University of Karachi Professor Dr Khalid Mahmood Iraqi said Pakistani nation need to learn from the thoughts, teaching, and philosophy of Dr Muhammad Allama Iqbal as his divine poetry carried great messages of hope, optimism, freedom, patriotism, ego and self reliance.

We all praise Allama Iqbal for his vision and devotion and acknowledge that he was the great leader who gives the concept of a separate homeland for Muslims of the subcontinents. But, unfortunately, we did not follow what he teaches us and what he wants us to do for the betterment of our motherland.

These views were expressed by VC KU on Tuesday. He was addressing the audience during an Iqbal Day celebration held at the Karachi University Business School Auditorium.

The ceremony was attended by Sector Commander Sindh Rangers Brigadier Muhammad Shabir Khan, Wing Commander Col. Musoor Abbas, Major Imran, KU Student Advisor Dr Syed Asim Ali, Professor Dr Uzma Farman, Dr Danish Pirzada, chairs of various departments, teachers, and a large number of students.

This is a reality that the west has learned a lot from Dr Muhammad Iqbal, they learn how to survive in difficult situations and how to struggle when there is little hope and things are not in their favor. However, we failed to implement his teaching and thoughts in our society in letter and spirit, he told.

The KU VC Professor Dr Khalid Iraqi informed the audience that a lot of work has been done regarding Iqbal鈥檚 literary and philosophical work in Germany while in Pakistan we have not done such a world.

Another speaker, Professor Dr Uzma Farman said that Allama Iqbal has declared the youth as the catalyst for change in society, life, and thought. Iqbal is such a big and widespread name that it is not possible to wrap it up and cover his personality and work in a single day.

鈥淏efore the independence, the people of the subcontinent had almost give-up the hopes that British rulers will leave their land, and at that time very few people like Iqbal tried to awaken the sleeping nation through his thoughts and also showed them the way to the destination.鈥?
On this occasion, the Karachi University Music Society released a special song 鈥淭alash鈥?based on Allama Iqbal work to celebrate Iqbal Day. It was the fifth nation song being released by the team of KUMS during the last three years.

Furthermore, the Karachi University Theatre and Drama Society stage a drama 鈥淣ahi hai Iqbal Na Ummed鈥?whereas a marathon race 鈥淪haheen never gets tired鈥?was organized by the Karachi University Sports Society and the members of the Inclusive Society of the University of Karachi presented national anthem by using sign language. The performances were appreciated by the guest and audience and merit certificates were also distributed among the students who participated in various activities."
"This year, the CoVID-19 pandemic disrupted our public and private life all over the world. Germany contributed in multilateral and bilateral mechanisms to fight CoVID-19, such as the Pakistan Humanitarian Pooled Fund. We are equally active at your side in other causes like the Sindh flood relief.

The pandemic's disruptions delayed my arrival, but it did not stop us: A few weeks ago, I was finally able to take up my assignment as German Consul General in this vibrant city of Karachi. My wife and I look forward to meeting new people and getting to know the Pakistani culture. We hope to explore this diverse country, especially Sindh and Baluchistan, the two provinces of my consular district. Karachi, the financial hub of the country, will be a good starting point to strengthen our bilateral ties by economic and cultural exchange, since it also hosts the German Pakistan Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Goethe-institut.

Germany has long been an important trading partner for Pakistan and vice versa. The textile sector, of course, plays an eminent role, with machinery delivered from Germany and products from home textiles to finished garments sent there. However, I see ample opportunities to intensify the cooperation in other sectors.

Besides Berlin, Germany's start-up hub, many cities and regions offer an excellent environment for young companies. Large corporations and numerous SMEs - the famous Mittelstand - make Germany the largest economy in Europe and #3 in the list of top export countries in the world.

Let us all strive together for even closer cooperation between our beloved countries!

On this 3rd of October, we celebrate our 30th anniversary of German Unity together with all our friends in a virtual concert by singer Zoe Viccaji from Karachi: Tune in at 7 pm on @GermanyinKHI and @GermanyinPAK in social media!

Copyright Business Recorder, 2020"
"Ethnomusicologist, Musician and Co-Founder of Pakistan鈥檚 Leading Comprehensive Music Symposium, Lahore Music Meet, Natasha Noorani is set to represent Pakistan in Germany this August as the only musician from the country for the fifth annual Goethe Talents Programme 2019.

Indeed, Natasha Noorani will be one of 10 musicians from across the world to participate in the 10-day Goethe Talents Scholarship, scheduled to take place from 14th to the 24th of August in Berlin.

The Goethe Talents Programme 2019 aims to support and connect young, aspiring musical artists including singer-songwriters, composers and DJs. Cooperation between the Goethe-institut and 禄Pop-Kultur芦, the scholarship will offer a variety of activities to experience the 鈥渕usic city鈥?Berlin before the actual Festival: Studio visits, jam-sessions, short traineeships in selected companies from Berlin鈥檚 creative industries, listening sessions and meetings with scholarship holders of the Musicboard Berlin GmbH.

Indeed, the scholarship is directed at musicians between 20 and 30 years of age who have already gained some experience in the field of music and have a solid grasp of the English language.

Natasha Noorani, selected via the worldwide network of Goethe-institut, is a Lahore based singer-songwriter, playback singer, festival director, and music promoter. As a musician, her music lies somewhere between the realms of contemporary R&B, neo-soul and progressive rock which can be heard in her debut EP 鈥楳unaasib鈥?(2018). Noorani has also collaborated with various Pakistani acts including Strings, Biryani Brothers, Ali Suhail, Sikandar Ka Mandar & Gentle Robot.

Currently pursuing an MMus in Ethnomusicology from the School of Oriental & African Studies (SOAS), Noorani also featured in the summer blockbuster film, Baaji, on the song Ye Aaj Mujh Ko Kya Hua as a playback singer for 鈥楳eera Ji鈥? Noorani has also been deeply involved in the Pakistani music industry having co-founded South-Asia鈥檚 premiere music festival, Lahore Music Meet (LMM).

Since its inception, Lahore Music Meet has brought together enthusiasts, artisans, artists, patrons, industry representatives, and academics to initiate dialogue on the developments and shortcomings in music in Pakistan. Most recently, Noorani served as General Manager for Pakistan鈥檚 leading music platform, Coke Studio Pakistan (Season 10) and has managed South-Asian pop duo, Strings.

Noorani plans to release more music later this year."
"Visitors viewing the work on display at the exhibit.

The audience looks on during a presentation at the Arrival City exhibit.

Home is no longer a monolith. It is in a state of flux. Capsized refugee boats scrambling towards Europe are a testament to that. In a world where more and more people are being stripped of their moorings, either forcibly or voluntarily, the question arises: what is home?This conundrum lies at the very heart of an on-going exhibition titled ""Arrival City"". Brought to Karachi in collaboration with the Goethe-institut Pakistan, the German exhibit seeks to contextualise and understand not only the issues plaguing refugees but also how best to assimilate these individuals into an already fragmented society. Initially displayed at the Architecture Biennale in Venice, its Karachi chapter broadens the scope of its narrative by taking a look at the dilemma of the Afghan refugees in Pakistan.Housed in Yousuf Bashir Qureshi's warehouse turned Artist Colony, the exhibit which opened on Saturday, is curated by architect and vociferous advocate for the preservation of heritage sights, Marvi Mazhar. Mazhar is no stranger to navigating the complexities of the rabid urban landscape and the problems that come along with it. She noted that the exhibition ""questions the idea of home, home as a place of familiarity, security and as a form of identity we carry within us. This exhibit tries to cast a light on the struggles the refugees face on a day to day basis, many of whom are constantly struggling to find a place where they can truly belong and be accepted.""The most arresting segment of the display was the intensive research work carried out on Afghan refugees by Zehra Nawab, Danial Shah and Salman Alam, which manifests itself in the shape of short documentaries, explanatory text and images. It provides a glimpse into the manner in which the daily lives of Afghan refugees unfold while also grounding their struggles in a geopolitical context. Nawab stated that, ""Often we limit communities to just being facts and figures in news reports. The idea behind this project was to discover the humans that make up these numbers. Who is the Afghan refugee? Where does she go to school? What does his home look like?""Additionally, the work done by Hafsa Ghani and Fariha Kidwai looked at the refugee dilemma by trying to understand why their situation continues to be so dire. Their documentary, which was screened at the symposium which followed the exhibition, argued that the problems faced by refugees persist because many such individuals have little to no access to formal education since they lack the necessary paperwork. Similarly, Sameer Nizamuddin further explored why the situation of these refugees has not improved by studying and documenting second-generation Afghan migrants and what home means for them.By revealing the stories of this community labelled ""refugee"" for four generations, a narrative emerges which is both tragic and beautiful, relatable and alien. The stories at the exhibit speak of love, of heart aches, of fears, of economics, of war, of peace, of home - of the home lost and the one gained.The exhibition will continue till June 23rd.Published in The Express Tribune, June 11, 2019."
"As part of its Sheikh Mutahir Ahmed Memorial Lecture Series, the Department of International Relations of the University of Karachi is hosting an event in which eminent economist Dr Kaiser Bengali will speak on 鈥楥hina-Pakistan Economic Corridor: A Game-Changer or Game-Over鈥? The event starts at 11am on October 1 (today) at the university鈥檚 Arts Auditorium. Call 021-99261300 for more information.

Jasoosi Duniya

The National Academy of Performing Arts is staging a comedy play titled 鈥楯asoosi Duniya鈥?from October 4 to October 13. Adapted and directed by Khalid Ahmad, the play is based on Sam Bobrick鈥檚 鈥楾he Psychic鈥? Call 021-35693701 for more information.

Wolfgang Haffner Concert

The Goethe-institut Pakistan is hosting a concert of Wolfgang Haffner & Band from 8pm to 11pm on October 18 at the Arts Council of Pakistan in Karachi. This concert is one of the 10 performances on their South Asian tour. Call 021-35661633 for more information.

Stradivaria Concert

The Alliance Fran莽aise de Karachi and the Goethe-institut Pakistan are hosting a Franco-German concert titled 鈥楽tradivaria鈥?from 8pm to 11pm on October 26 at the Karachi Marriott Hotel. Call 021-35873402 or 021-35661633 for more information.

The Bartered Co-Resident

The Koel Gallery is hosting Syed Faraz Ali鈥檚 solo art exhibition titled 鈥楾he Bartered Co-Resident鈥?until October 4. Call 021-35831292 for more information.

What May Lie Ahead

The Canvas Gallery is hosting Adeela Suleman鈥檚 solo art exhibition based on her new works titled 鈥榃hat May Lie Ahead鈥?until October 4. Call 021-35861523 for more information.

In the garden of words and nature

The MainFrame Gallery is hosting Mohammad Ibrahim鈥檚 solo art exhibition titled 鈥業n the garden of words and nature鈥?until October 6. Call 021-35824455 for more information.

360 Degree

The ArtKaam Gallery is hosting Fariya Zaeem, Marium Khan, Nimra Shahid, Sadaf Farasat and Syeda Zainab Taj鈥檚 art exhibition titled 鈥?60 Degree鈥?until October 6. Call 0317-1160642 for more information.

IMPermanence

The ArtChowk Gallery is hosting Nayab Noor and SM Raza鈥檚 art exhibition titled 鈥業MPermanence鈥?until October 11. In this show they experiment with colour, texture and form to depict florescence and decay in our world. Call 021-35300482 for more information."
"Independent musicians like Natasha Humera Ejaz, who also makes music under the moniker Stupid Happiness Theory, will continue to forge new ground, no matter how tough the road.

She began the year by releasing the beautiful single 鈥楪od in Me鈥?with a stunning music video directed by Ali Junejo. As Natasha told Instep, it is a prayer song that explores spirituality. 鈥淚t鈥檚 about figuring out what it means to know the truth and not know the truth and finding yourself and not finding yourself.鈥?
She was also one of the voice artists in the film, Allahyar and the Legend of Markhor and featured on the soundtrack as well with two tracks; a cover of Nazia and Zoheb Hassan鈥檚 鈥楳uskaraye Ja鈥?and the original 鈥楶aharon Se Agay鈥? with the latter co-written with Ahmed Ali.

This year, Natasha was also selected for the coveted Border Movement Residency (BMR) that takes place in Berlin for two months. Natasha鈥檚 Stupid Happiness Theory from Pakistan was picked alongside Phatcowlee from Nepal and Nigel Perera from Sri Lanka.

Speaking about getting accepted, said Natasha/Stupid Happiness Theory to BMR earlier this summer: 鈥淚 always liked chasing opportunities that allowed my curiosity to remain an overbearing force in my life. It consistently helps in nurturing the child in me. Applying to BMR was a step in exactly that direction and words don鈥檛 do justice to the feeling of being awarded the privilege to participate in such a unique, tailor-made art experience. I plan on taking my time in Berlin to learn, unlearn and relearn. To observe, transcribe and ideate. And therefore write, record and release 鈥?all in an attempt to uncover more of this stupid 鈥榟appiness theory鈥?we all like to chase.鈥?
In 2017, BMR selected Karachi-based music producer Daniel A. Panjwaneey (also known as Alien Panda Jury who co-founded Sine Valley Festival in Nepal) as one of its participants. Border Movement Residency is created in partnership with Goethe-institut, Wild City, Ableton and Musicboard Berlin.

Now back in Pakistan, Natasha took the stage in Islamabad as Stupid Happiness Theory earlier this month in Islamabad, and played a set that she described as one very close to her heart - in collaboration with Face Pakistan (Foundation for Arts, Culture and Education), which is founded by Zeejah Fazli.

Post-gig, Natasha took to Instagram and wrote a long note, in which she stated with gratitude: 鈥淚 was lucky enough to be sharing the fruits of a very personal journey with confidants and strangers alike. It鈥檚 a very special feeling when you look up into the sea of people standing in front of you, dancing, moving. And to what? The musings of your idle mind? What an incredible thing to be sharing with people.鈥?
Whatever Natasha /Stupid Happiness Theory does next, we can鈥檛 wait."
"The Sanat Initiative is hosting Asif Ahmed鈥檚 solo art exhibition titled 鈥楩rom Dawn to Dusk鈥?until October 24. Ahmed鈥檚 art practice over the years has explored the visual history of the subcontinent. The recent body of work speaks about the British Raj through detailed drawings that reflect on the faded traces of the subcontinent鈥檚 iconic history. Call 0300-8208108 for more information.

Leftovers of My Imagination

The MainFrame Gallery is hosting a four-man art exhibition titled 鈥楲eftovers of My Imagination鈥?from October 23 to October 31. Muhammad Sulaman tries to identify the impact of appearances on our perception. Syed Noroz Ali focuses on man鈥檚 inner turmoil. Raza ur Rehman is tethered to the connection of people with their habitats. Nizam Baloch registers his comment on the socio-cultural influences that dominate us. Call 0300-8285600 for more information.

Stradivaria Concert

The Alliance Fran莽aise de Karachi and the Goethe-institut Pakistan are hosting a Franco-German concert titled 鈥楽tradivaria鈥?from 8pm to 11pm on October 26 at the Karachi Marriott Hotel. Call 021-35873402 or 021-35661633 for more information.

Annual dinner at KU Int鈥檒 Relations Department

The University of Karachi鈥檚 International Relations Department will hold the annual dinner for their students and alumni at 6:45pm on October 27 at the University Staff Club of the varsity. Visit www.kuird.edu.pk for more details.

Un-Thinking

The Canvas Gallery is hosting Sanie Bokhari and Zahrah Ehsan鈥檚 art exhibition titled 鈥楿n-Thinking鈥?from October 23 to November 1. While Sanie鈥檚 work aims to create a platform for a cultural dialogue that reflects the simultaneity of her own embracing of local traditions, Zahrah鈥檚 work plays with incarceration within the expectations and promises that are perpetually undelivered. Call 021-35861523 for more information.

Boundaries Boundless

The Koel Gallery is hosting Amean J, Irfan Naqi, Madiha Aijaz, Mehreen Khalid, Momin Zafar and Umar Riaz鈥檚 art exhibition titled 鈥楤oundaries Boundless鈥?from October 23 to November 1. In the words of curator Tehmina Ahmed, we define and are defined by our boundaries of time and space, fences, walls and borders, and the mind; beyond the boundaries lies the boundless: a space of possibility, prayer and reverie. Call 021-35831292 for more information.

Landscapes of Pakistan

The ArtKaam Gallery is hosting Ghulam Mustafa鈥檚 solo art exhibition titled 鈥楲andscapes of Pakistan鈥?from October 27 to November 3. Mustafa is acknowledged for his spontaneity and expertise in lifting whatever arrests his attention. He served the Punjab Arts Council for 28 years. Known as a master of landscapes, his art is a research topic at top universities like the National College of Arts. Call 0317-1160642 for more information."
"German Consul General in Karachi, Rainer Schmiedchen, and the director of the Goethe-institut, Karachi, Stefan Winkler, at a joint press conference held at the Karachi Press Club on Thursday afternoon announced the schedule of activities of both organisations for the period from October 11 to December 31 this year.

Designated as the 鈥楪erman Weeks 2017鈥? the period envisages a vast range of diverse cultural and educational activity.

The period begins with an academic lecture, 鈥楾he Reformation and its effects on the culture and politics of Europe鈥? by Professor Gury Schneider-Ludorff at the Pakistan Institute of International Affairs (PIIA) on October 11 at 5pm. On October 13, there will be a music workshop and concert, 鈥楻aggabund鈥? This is a German urban and dancehall formation; on October 19 there will be a German spelling competition and October 22 will be the grand finale of the national competition.

The Goethe-institut is supporting the KB17, the first biennale in Karachi under the theme, 鈥榃itness鈥? curated by Amin Gulgee. The public opening for the event would be on October 22 and it will run till November 5.

The other events are as follows:

October 23-27: Film festival, starting with the film, 鈥楥onni and Co.鈥?
All through November: A series of documentaries.

November 11: Second German Consulate-General football cup.

November 17: Concert, 鈥榃e work in Space鈥? by Ashraf Khan and Viktor Marek.

November 21: Jazz concert.

November 23: Lecture by Dr Wasim Frembgen titled, 鈥楾he Charisma of the Qalandar: aesthetics of devotion in the cult of Sufi saint Lal Shahbaz Qalandar鈥?

November 24: Sufi night with Kashif Zafar and a sufi fusion Qawwali ensemble.

November 28: Book launch of 鈥楶akistan Now鈥? a book by a German photographer that showcases Pakistan鈥檚 scenic splendour.

Nov 30: Dinner jointly hosted by the German Consulate-General and M/S Dewan Motors to showcase the latest BMW 5 Series.

December 7: CVT networking event at the German Consulate-General.

December 7: Annual chamber meeting of the German-Pakistan Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GPCCI).

December 16-17: 60th anniversary of the Goethe-institut in Pakistan.

Speaking at the presser, CG Schmiedchen said, 鈥淐ultural exchange is an important part of the public diplomacy of Germany. It is a means to engage people in a positive way.鈥?
He further stated that this year鈥檚 German Weeks offered a great line up for people from all walks of life.

Goethe-institut Director Stefan Winkler said the institute would be presenting events like the best of documentaries, jazz/fusion concerts, exhibitions, the third German spelling bee contest for

Pasch schools, a music workshop/concert, and an open day for students interested in higher education and language teaching in Germany.

The large line-up of activities, with important personalities form Germany coming over for the events, belies all the propaganda about Pakistan being a security risk country, for had that been the case we could not have had such a profusion of activities with visiting German scholars and artistes."
"By Mahnoor M. Farooqui | Newsliners | Published 5 years ago

A crowd of young and old, lovers of music and students of the National Academy of Performing Arts (NAPA), seated themselves in the tightly-packed NAPA auditorium on November 21, waiting in anticipation for the musical performance of the German group C.A.R to begin. Jointly organised by the German Consulate General of Karachi and the Goethe-institut Pakistan, the Jazz concert was one of the many events in the 鈥楪erman Weeks鈥? a series of cultural events held once a year.

German Consul General, Rainer Schmiedchen, spoke enthusiastically of how the German musicians would fuse with Pakistanis: 鈥淢usicians from Germany will interact with Pakistani musicians 鈥?this is the spice of the whole event!鈥?
He went on to say that the show was a collaborative effort to reach out to the Karachiites. 鈥淏y flying down musicians from Germany we show them that there are cultured people here, who will enjoy their performance!鈥?
Stefan Winkler, who heads the Goethe-institut Pakistan, introduced the C.A.R company 鈥?musicians Leonhard Huhn, Christian Lorenzen, Kenn Hartwig and Johannes Klingebiel 鈥?and spoke of the ease with which they organised the event with Arshad Mehmood, Director of Programmes, and the Head of the Music Department, NAPA, Ustad Nafees Ahmed Khan, who would later join the musicians on stage.

C.A.R was founded in 2011 by Klingebiel and Hartwig in Cologne, Germany; their sound is a blend of jazz, electronica and krautrock.

Sameen Murtaza, a student of NAPA and classical vocalist in training, expressed her desire to learn something new from the varying techniques, 鈥淲e need to learn everything 鈥?its rhythm, melody, we learn a lot from every aspect! It鈥檚 a stage performance, and our mentors perform with them. One thing NAPA does best is fusion 鈥?our blending of eastern music with every kind of western music.鈥?
Loud whoops of excitement erupted from the audience as the musical group took to a stage awash in royal blue lighting, setting the mood for a space age-like, mind-altering experience. 鈥淲e are going to take you on a trip, so fasten your seatbelts!鈥?remarked Klingebiel as the concert took off.

With Ustad Nafees Ahmed on the sitar, and Waqas on the tabla, the Pakistani and German musicians played the first set together, riffing off each other with finesse in one cohesive, psychedelic melody.

The second concert in Pakistan for C.A.R, after the warm reception to the first in Islamabad, marked the launch of their South Asian tour organised by the Goethe-institut, which will take them to Colombo, Chennai, Mumbai and other cities.

While the concert鈥檚 eclectic music may not have been to everyone鈥檚 tastes, renowned director and producer, Sahira Kazmi, who was among the attendees, remarked upon the concert鈥檚 fresh take on jazz, 鈥淚t was something new, something different. While it may not be the usual jazz that one is used to, it was certainly nouveau, and I quite liked it!鈥?
Eighth Karachi Literature Festival to commence on Feb 10,,Three-day event will feature 136 Pakistani and"





 Managing Director



 mushairas

 teaching of history

 Fehmida Riaz



 law

000 visitors





 the Manchester Literature Festival
"Considering mammoth turnout, fans believe next year鈥檚 event may require bigger venue

After a day-long exercise of panel discussions on various facets of national life and showcasing of literary talent by writers from here and overseas, it was time to say goodbye to the three days of fellowship that the mammoth crowd of literature fans had enjoyed.

The two co-founders of the Karachi Literature Festival 鈥?Ameena Saiyid, Oxford University Press (Pakistan) managing director, and renowned writer Dr Asif Farrukhi 鈥?made highly sentimental speeches, a testament to the fellowship that had developed among the participants and the far larger-than-expected number of visitors.

Ameena and Dr Farrukhi certainly gathered more glistening bright feathers in their caps. In fact, people were heard saying that a bigger venue would have to be sought for next year鈥檚 event in the light of the large number of visitors.

The space under the big marquee stretching from one end of the Beach Luxury Hotel鈥檚 expansive lawn to the other was full to capacity with almost as many people standing outside the tent. The chairs arranged in the marquee ran into thousands.

This goes to show, without any doubt, the popularity the festival has mustered for the citizens as much as it goes to show the yearning our people have for intellectual pursuits. It also goes to show that our masses, even if they could not have an intellectual attainment, still yearn for intellectual refreshment.

This is further borne out by the fact that despite there being visitors from all strata of society, from the most trendy to the most conservative, on all the three days there was not even one remotely untoward incident.

鈥淭hese three days have been powerful tools for learning the culture, history and literature of our region and beyond,鈥?said Ameena. She announced that there would be a similar literature festival in Islamabad on April 14, 15 and 16.

She said the festival was organised to showcase Pakistan鈥檚 intellectual status as much as its diversity and creating a space to eliminate bigotry and extremism. She hoped that the event would also build bridges of peace and understanding with our neighbours.

She congratulated PepsiCo, United Bank, the German Consulate General, the US Consulate General, the British Council, The British High Commission, the British Deputy High Commission, the Indian Council for Cultural Relations, the Goethe-institut and the Tehzeeb Foundation on their contribution to the success of the festival.

Dr Farrukhi, in a very sentimental tone, said: 鈥淚t is very hard to say goodbye.鈥?The fact that it was the 8th festival shows that hope has persisted and would endure, he added.

A freelance photographer and travel enthusiast from America, Bob Sager, said the narrative in the US did not speak of Pakistanis in a very flattering way but his extensive travel in Pakistan had shown beyond a shadow of doubt that Pakistanis were the most hospitable, the most helpful and the friendliest people anywhere.

With the help of slides and videos he showed how people all over the world could be won over by one鈥檚 gestures of friendship. He also showed slides of his tour of the parts of Pakistan struck by a killer earthquake in 2005.

Writer Mohammed Hanif read out a piece he had written on Karachi and its social peculiarities. Later, Suhaee Abro presented a beautiful classical dance, followed by another classical dance by Shayma Saiyid, an exquisite classical performance oozing artistry and grace."
"This year鈥檚 Karachi Literature Festival (KLF) provoked the usual conversations about the usual topics: Are literature festivals necessary in a country beset by poverty and illiteracy? Why aren鈥檛 more books being published in English, and why aren鈥檛 more people writing in Urdu? Does Pakistani literature have relevance in the world? Can art and literature solve our country鈥檚 problems? And so on and so forth. Authors and intellectuals sit on the stage and risk public ridicule in an attempt to provide answers to these imponderables, but they are forgotten between one year and the next.

In the eight years since the inception of the KLF 鈥?and with the subsequent Lahore Literary Festival (LLF), Islamabad Literature Festival (ILF), Children鈥檚 Literature Festivals (CLF), festivals all over Pakistan, and now the New York edition of the LLF and London edition of the KLF on the horizon 鈥?we haven鈥檛 yet resolved these weighty issues. We continue to debate them with gusto among the gentle sea breezes, sweeping palm trees and calm waters of the Chinna Creek. Perhaps we take a singular pleasure in meeting year after year to debate the unsolvable, the way you participate in family gupshup about that annoying neighbour who won鈥檛 stop parking his car in front of your driveway.

Another point of contention that crops up every year at the KLF is the problem of panel moderation (or chairing, as it鈥檚 called in Britain). The most frequent complaint I鈥檝e encountered in every round-up column and blog post is that the moderator for so-and-so鈥檚 panel ruined everything. Either she hadn鈥檛 read the book or had never heard of the writer (admitted by a moderator, in public, at the KLF two years ago), or the moderator decided to expound on her own work instead of focusing on the guest speaker (reported to have happened at the LLF this year in a panel between two major global writers). Or, the moderator hadn鈥檛 prepared a good line of questions for the writer, making the experience weird and unfocused for the audience.

Having attended the KLF seven years in a row, I believe that the choice of moderator is as crucial as the choice of guest. In fact, when I鈥檓 invited to be a guest speaker on a panel, I relax, because I know that all I have to do is show up and answer the questions. It鈥檚 almost like a picnic for me. On the other hand, when I鈥檓 required to chair a panel or moderate a conversation, I quake because it means I鈥檝e got a tremendous amount of work ahead of me before I set foot on the stage. My friends and family will tell you I spend the entire month before the festival in a bad mood because I鈥檓 so stressed out about the preparations for one single panel.

鈥淭he most frequent complaint is that the moderator ruined everything. Either she hadn鈥檛 read the book or had never heard of the writer, or decided to expound on her own work instead of focusing on the guest speaker.

I鈥檒l let you in on a secret: moderators don鈥檛 get paid for their work at the festival, although they should, because the festival programmers would then take more care with the selection of moderators and the quality of panels would improve as a result. But it鈥檚 not money that motivates a good moderator any more than it is the appearance fee that motivates a good writer 鈥?or at least, it shouldn鈥檛 be. It is a sense of professionalism and respect for the written word, as well as consideration for the audience and the guest who are giving up their time to attend the panel. I feel a particular responsibility to the writer I鈥檓 speaking to, as well as to the audience, to prepare in the best way possible.

This KLF I was requested to conduct a conversation with German writer Ilija Trojanow, who came to Karachi courtesy of the Goethe-institut to speak about his bestseller, The Collector of Worlds, a grand novel about three time periods in the life of the traveller and writer Sir Richard Burton. I looked up Trojanow on the internet and read about his life and work, and then I got in touch with him to introduce myself. How thrilled I was when Trojanow offered to send me a copy of the novel in exchange for a copy of my own novel about Sindh! These are the exchanges that begin to forge a personal bond between moderator and guest, that make an intimate conversation possible in a public venue in front of an audience.

While I was waiting for the book to arrive, I researched Trojanow some more. I read articles about him and interviews with him. I watched online videos in order to familiarise myself with his speaking style. I read reviews of the novel so that I could pick up on the important threads and questions that the book raised, as well as its flaws and strengths. The book arrived in the post two weeks after our initial correspondence and I set about reading it from cover to cover, but I was already familiar with the material thanks to my initial research.

Formulating questions for the panel then became an easier task, supplemented by my own thinking and knowledge of the subject of Sindh during the time of the British Raj. A quick meeting with Trojanow before the panel 鈥?because during a festival, time is always short and you can鈥檛 control for every factor during the session 鈥?helped me to focus my questions and ensure he was comfortable with the topics I wanted to bring up.

By the time you reach the stage, most of your work needs to have already been done, so that the conversation can feel natural and organic. A moderator has to bring his or her own expertise to the panel, but she must be careful never to overshadow the speaker or try to impress the audience with her own knowledge. They aren鈥檛 there to hear you, but to hear your guest. Your job is to point the conversation in the right direction, make sure it flows, and make sure that the audience feels involved and invited long before the questions even start.

In the end, the conversation with Trojanow went beautifully. I was lucky to have as a guest a brilliant man, a practiced speaker, someone who isn鈥檛 afraid to expound on any subject without fear of reaction or disapproval. A moderator longs for a guest like that; to have been any less prepared than I had been would have wasted a great opportunity for the audience to benefit from his presence. You could almost say I鈥檓 looking forward to the next time I get to moderate at a panel like this.

The columnist is the author of six books and also writes for The New York Times. She is based in Karachi

Published in Dawn, Books & Authors, March 26th, 2017"
"Islamabad

Roots International Schools (RIS) signed an agreement of cooperation with Goethe-institut, says a press release. The agreement would serve as a hallmark of successful relationship between Germany and Pakistan.

Ms. Ina Lepel, ambassador of Federal Republic of Germany to Pakistan was the chief guest of the ceremony. Stefan Winkler, director of the Goethe-institut, Burghardt Brinksmeier, cultural attach茅 at the German Embassy, Olav Schroeer, regional coordinator of Regional Institut in New-Delhi, Irfan Samad Khan, head of the Language Department of the Goethe-institut, Maha A. Jafarey, PASCH coordinator, Naurin Zaki, PASCH coordinator, students of RIS, parents and faculty were also present on the occasion.

RIS students performed in the ceremony, depicting the quintessence of Roots German Language Club. The club aims to cultivate raw minds of students and shape them with extra ordinary skills and to make their learning capabilities and experiences intriguing and creating more engaged and experimental learning opportunities for them while dispensing their learning through reflection.

Ms. Ina Lepel and Stefan Winkler appreciated Walid Mushtaq鈥檚 and Roots International Schools efforts over these years for the promotion of German Language. Walid Mushtaq thanked the Goethe-institut and German Embassy and faculty members for their untiring efforts.

鈥淟earning a foreign language not only reveals how other societies think and feel, what they have experienced and value, and how they express themselves, it also provides a cultural mirror in which we can more clearly see our own society.鈥?
In 2008 Goethe-institut started its PASCH project and RIS is one of those schools who initiated this project from the first day of its launching in Pakistan, not only at college level but in primary and high schools also. With this vision the CEO RIS Sir Walid Mushtaq, the idea sponsor of Roots German Language programme, with high spirits and unshakable faith joined hands with Goethe-institut to facilitate students with the best learning procedures and to expose them to international environment by arranging tours to Germany to enrich them with German traditions and customs.

Since then, with the collaboration of the Goethe-institut, German Embassy, RIS has been able to develop global citizens by implementation of the Foreign Language Programme. The PASCH partner schools' initiative is a venture into bringing schools from all over the world at one platform. As a PASCH partner school, students participate in the language youth camps and students' forums at the regional and international levels at different destinations around the world. Roots International School has always been in the forefront of all PASCH Schools activities."

"Goethe-institut director Stefan Winkler and German Consul-General Rainer Schmiedchen present the schedule of the events that will be part of the 鈥楪erman Weeks鈥? PHOTO: ATHAR KHAN/EXPRESS

KARACHI: Mark your calendars to get an essence of Germany through a plethora of educational and cultural events beginning from October.



'German Weeks' in Karachi, presented by the German consulate-general and Goethe-institut Pakistan, endeavours to give people a taste of German traditions, culture art, sports, music and language.



Germany and Pakistan have once again joined hands to promote culture and tradition, said German Consul-General Rainer Schmiedchen during a press conference at Karachi Press Club on Thursday.



German weeks are organised every year to promote German culture and encourage people to become aware of its traditions. This year, the German consulate-general and Goethe-institut will be hosting 17 events, including musical concerts, exhibitions, spelling competitions, workshops and lectures. The two-month-long event will start on October 3 and culminate on December 13.



""All the supporting schools have also been invited to participate and this year the number of participating students has been increased,"" remarked Goethe-institut director Stefan Winkler.



Main highlights



Announcing the main highlights of the event, Schmiedchen said that the first event will be a workshop on graphic novels with MOSAIK, which is a comic with the highest circulation in Germany.



Another highlight will be 'Fubball - The first German consulate cup in Karachi', which will be held on November 12. In the football tournament, organised in collaboration with Karachi United, the participating schools will be those where German is taught as a language.



Alongside, musical concerts have also been organised, including 'Sufi-Step', where Viktor Marek will perform alongside Ashraf Sharif Khan, 'Jazz Tour' and an electro music concert.



A lecture by Prof Dr Conrad Schetterm, an expert on South Asia and Central Asia, will be held in December to strengthen the bond between the two countries.



Talking about the spelling bee competition, Winkler said, ""We have several hundred students participating in the spelling bee competition, which is held in German."" He added that the number of participating students has increased as many schools have also asked to send their students for the competition.



Published in The Express Tribune, September 30th, 2016."
"The Express Tribune

Can urban creative practices stimulate agency and community engagement? Who determines the urban narratives in spaces of various contradicting parallel realities? And where do citizens position themselves in these spaces and what art can do about it?To provide critical sites for experimentation in visual expression and experience, the Lahore Biennale 01 鈥?a non-profit organisation 鈥?was launched at the 鈥楥ity in Context鈥?symposium, hoping to challenge and expand the scope of both.The formal inauguration came on the last day of the four-day symposium that concluded at Alhamra on Sunday. The event was a mix of workshops, talks, performances, discussions and exhibitions aimed at discussing and expanding the existing ideas regarding urban complexities and art.Hosted by the Goethe-institut of Pakistan in collaboration with the Lahore Biennale Foundation (LBF) and the Centre for Culture and Development, the forum is a culmination of two-year-long collaborative projects titled 鈥楿rbanites 鈥?Art and Public Spaces in Pakistan鈥?by Goethe and 鈥楽tories We Tell 鈥?Aao Sunayen Kahani鈥?by LBF.The symposium brought together poets, writers, theoreticians, architects and artists to discuss on a multitude of issues such as potential of art in public spaces, urban creative processes and contested spaces during six discussion sessions.The underlying aim of discussion sessions was to explore the questions such as what does the 鈥榬ight to the city鈥?mean in places where the claim to urban space needs constant renegotiation and where occasional violence draws the borders of accessibility on urban maps?Various sessions aimed at exploring the dynamics of curatorial premises in Lahore by addressing questions like what is not art, what are the existing and possible sites of display and what are the functions of art.Rashid Rana, the artistic director for Lahore Biennale 01, envisions the inauguration as an ever-evolving process of art in public spaces rather than just one grand exhibition.鈥淐onservation is one of the many initiatives that has contributed to the objectives of this foundation,鈥?he said. 鈥淥ver the course of the year, through many discussion sessions with experts from diverse fields, 鈥榗onservation鈥?has served as a coexisting mechanism, generating debates and familiarising artists with curatorial premises.鈥滸oethe-Institut Pakistan Director Stephan Winkler said art and public space in Pakistan were a critical exploration of the urban centres and their complexities and possibilities under the premise of individual artistic work and research approaches.He said the projects incited discursive and artistic contributions and an intervention related to Pakistan鈥檚 controversial and contested urban space. In the future, he added, the project aims to engage a broad audience with contemporary art and link emerging artist-curator generation in Pakistan with that in Germany.Comprising several audio and visual installations, an exhibition dedicated to the city as site of investigation and intervention also ended with the symposium at the Alhamra Gallery on Sunday.The exhibition featured work and research done during residencies of several artists in both Karachi and Lahore over the past year.The work dealt with social awareness and global desires, developing landscapes and mindful walking acts, including documents and informal urban design practices and collective knowledge.Miro Creamer, a German fashion and social designer, addressed the question of consumerism in local context through an audio projection and textile installation.His work 鈥楥hord of Desires鈥?explored the tragic Baldia factory fire of 2012 and transformed his experiences with the victims鈥?families and their narratives into art and design.Honi Rayn鈥檚 installation 鈥榃alk Lahore鈥?was inspired by exploring historical movements and relational aesthetics by walking in Lahore.Her socially engaged art practice puts environment at the centre, since she has been interested in exploring how urban space affects human relations and how one can apply mindful techniques to everyday situations to create shift in perception.Rayn鈥檚 research methodology involved walks to different areas of the city investigating subjective geographies.Shahana Rajini and Zahra Malkani鈥檚 work 鈥楩ield Notes鈥?revolved around exploring ruination of landscapes and degraded ecologies in relation to a mega-development project in Karachi, which has violently and systematically displaced indigenous population.According to the artists, they examined and unpacked the relationship of marginalised township of Gadap to the city of Karachi.Zoohaus/Inteligencias collective 鈥?a free, online database documenting different construction techniques from every region of the world, presented investigative work by architects Jaun Chacon Gargera and David Cardenas Lorenzo on informal urban design practices, traditional technologies and network of working communities in public spaces.Published in, December 5, 2016."
"KARACHI: Friends and colleagues of the late Musadiq Sanwal came together at The Second Floor (T2F) on Saturday evening to listen to his songs and share their experiences of working or spending time with the vocalist, composer and musician and understand his rare genius.

Here was a man who did just about everything. Hence he sang, wrote music and played it as well. He wrote poetry, too. He understood theatre and was gifted with enormous talent in just about everything that he did.

鈥淭here were so many facets to his kind of art,鈥?producer, director and writer Mazhar Zaidi told Wusatullah Khan, the moderator of the programme.

One of these facets happened to be theatre. His friend and producer, director, actor and theatre expert Khalid Ahmed said that all musicians could not do theatre but Musadiq did both very well. He recalled how when staging Jiney Lahore Naeen Vekhya, a play about the partition of the subcontinent, at the Goethe-institut Musadiq, took it on himself to design the sets. 鈥淗e was composing and singing, too, which meant that after finishing designing the sets he had to run along to bathe and wash the paint off himself to come back and play as well as sing,鈥?said Khalid Ahmed.

Another of Musadiq鈥檚 long-standing friends, producer and director Rashid Sami said that while working on plays they also had many artists from Shah Faisal Colony and he himself hailed from Defence, hence there could have been some misunderstandings or friction due to the class difference. 鈥淏ut Musadiq was like a bridge between me and them,鈥?he said.

Sharing a bit about Musadiq鈥檚 catchy sense of humour, producer, director and cinematographer Farjad Nabi remembered that once when he (Farjad) was not particularly happy with a certain music composition for a Kafi, Musadiq, in trying to convince him that it was really good, said Maulana Rumi had himself played the clarinet for it.

Bilal Brohi, who Musadiq had met when he (Bilal) had just returned from Malaysia after completing his studies, and with whom he managed to create a kind of fusion music of East and West, said that Musadiq spoke to him about Sufism. 鈥淲hen I asked which Sufi order he belonged to, Musadiq told me that he belonged to 鈥榯he order of disorder鈥?鈥?Bilal laughed. 鈥淎nd in the beginning when we tried playing our 鈥榝usion鈥?he called it 鈥榗onfusion鈥?鈥?he said, adding that they experimented with all kinds of music.

The evening moved along as a variety of Musadiq鈥檚 songs were played for the packed audience. Musadiq was a big fan of Nasir Kazmi鈥檚 poetry to which he gave music and his voice. He also sang Kafi, with regional songs, which were also played. Joshinder Chaggar and Sheema Kermani also danced to some of the fusion music composed by Bilal Brohi.

Finally, Khalid Ahmed read out Musadiq鈥檚 poem Nahi Koi Ghum / Koi Darr Nahi.

Originally published in Dawn, December 5th, 2016"
"Karachi

While it is generally believed that the transgender community is widely integrated in the first world countries, a discussion held at the Goethe-institut Karachi on Sunday evening - a part of the ongoing Aks festival - painted a different picture.

The dialogue between Mahvish Khan and film director Maria Binder touched upon the difficulties faced by the community in Turkey as Binder鈥檚 documentary 鈥楾rans X Istanbul鈥?screened earlier narrated the struggles of an activist named Ebru Kiranci.

鈥淭he transgender community is marginalised everywhere and they can鈥檛 participate in the society; they are expelled more than gay people,鈥?said Binder.

The documentary shows the lives of thousands of transwomen who live in prominent cities and brings to light the plight of many who are at times abducted and killed for owning their identity.

The killings spiked in 2009 after which Ebru not only spoke for the members of the community but also staged protests against the eviction of many individuals under the guise of urban development.

However, the 2013 Gezi Park protests sparked a debate on various identity issues ranging from the treatment of Kurds to the transgender community.

Relating to the documentary, Khan said activists in Pakistan would empathise with it because a similar situation persisted in our country in the context of Baloch and Pakhtun identities. Also, the reaction to the Gezi protests was a reminder of how state responds against the freedom to assemble.

Responding to a question about when children should be told about this, Binder and two other attendees said that instead of waiting for them to hit puberty, children need to be told about acceptability they learn to stereotype if they were not corrected.

Unlike Pakistan where members of the transgender community are issued separate identity cards, Turkey does not have a third identity; rather the member is either a transman or a transwoman considered heterosexual.

Speaking about integration, Binder said in every society, some accepted transgender people while most did not. When the film was screened in one of the areas where they were not accepted, people who were raising eyebrows at Ebru (who was present there) before watching the film, rushed to meet her after it ended, proving that it was only a matter of perception.

However, President Erdogan of Turkey, who appears to be running the country in totalitarian manner, did not walk the talk as he had earlier spoken about giving rights to homosexuals.

Kami Chaudhry, a transgender activist, said Aks celebrated diversity and the turnout of attendees also a ray of hope for the community because it showed that there was some room for integration.

Following the screening of 鈥楾rans X Istanbul鈥? another film 鈥楯ulia鈥?by Jackie Bair was shown.

Happening for the first time in Karachi, the Aks festival aims to empower the transgender community via film and dialogue and will end on April 18."
"KARACHI: Mowgli, the feral child and main protagonist of Rudyard Kipling鈥檚 The Jungle Book, delighted children and adults alike at a dramatic adaptation at the National Academy of Performing Arts on Wednesday.

Organised in col颅laboration with Goethe-institut, 鈥楳owgli鈥檚 Jungle鈥?introduced Erum Bashir in the avatar of the young man-cub who must overcome his recklessness and naivety in the big, bad jungle. The agility required by the character of Mowgli, eager to please and prove his mettle, was encapsulated by Bashir with bravado. Audiences, especially young children, may have found the concept difficult to accept a female cast as the lead male protagonist, and this is where the director Michael Miensopust鈥檚 vision helped transcend the play from being mere ordinary.

For most of the adults in the audience, 鈥楳owgli鈥檚 Jungle鈥?was a trip down memory lane, with flashbacks to the 1967 Disney production that was a staple in many a childhood, across generations. From Baloo the bear who is Mowgli鈥檚 constant, care-free companion, to Bagheera the Black Panther, sleek and more attuned to the dangers the jungle poses for Mowgli, the trio was light-hearted yet serious, and the children in the audience loved them.

Played by Hammad Siddiq and Hasan Raza respectively, Baloo and Bagheera鈥檚 unlikely friendship, especially when they put away their differences for the sake of Mowgli, was engaging. The banter they indulged in showed the love and friendship Kipling鈥檚 timeless characters have long been popular for.

However, it was Shere Khan the merciless Bengal Tiger who is Mowgli鈥檚 sworn enemy, that was a favourite among the crowd. The grace of the tiger was captured well by Kashif Hussain, and his efforts to hunt and kill Mowgli were at the receiving end of many comments from the children in the audience, who were at the edge of their seats to find out about Mowgli鈥檚 fate.

Humour was also used as dramatic relief with buffoonery a constant from most of the characters, thereby helping to lighten up the mood. Characters would break into song and dance too, and this heightened the anticipation of the play鈥檚 eventual unravelling. All choreography was managed by Anne-Kathrin Klatt from Germany with the music accompanying the play by Ajay Harry and Ahsan Ghulam Haider.

Survival of the fittest was one of the metaphors that ran throughout the length of the play, portrayed through Mowgli鈥檚 struggle to survive. He recognises he is different from the animals in the jungle, yet yearns to be one of them, accepted by them. It is towards the end that a realisation comes that he belongs to a world beyond the jungle, and once again the journey of survival among human beings begins.

And who can forget Kaa. An unlikely friend to Mowgli, the yellow python has moments of dubious intention but all comes right in the end. Brought onstage by Farhan Alam, known for doing justice to several eccentric characters he has played in previous productions, Alam did not disappoint. Be it when he casts a spell using his gaze to capture his prey, or when it is time to shed his old skin, Alam sashayed into each scene with ease, gently veiling the vindictiveness he reserves for those who cross him, and which thankfully Mowgli escapes unscathed from.

The play ends with an open-ended question regarding whether Mowgli faced a greater threat from Sher Khan, or his unlikely mentor, Kaa.

The play is exclusively reserved for schoolchildren during the week; however, shows on October 30 and 31 will be open to the public.

Published in Dawn October 29th, 2015"
Thousands of historical manuscripts in Sindh are being ruined either in private or public libraries. The illegal trade of such intellectual heritage outside Pakistan continues but no one takes action against it.These problems were highlighted by the speakers during a seminar titled 'Current Practices for the Preservation of Intellectual Heritage of Sindh: Problems faced and the Way Ahead', organised by the Pakistan Library Association (PLA) and Goethe-institut on Thursday.Dr Muhammad Idrees Soomro, a member of Islamic Ideology Council, while speaking at the seminar, said that he had already enlisted about 40,000 manuscripts in the province. "People are afraid to share rare manuscripts," Soomro pointed out. He said that there 32 private libraries only in his district Naushero Feroz. "We have a treasure of historical books in Sindh."Sharing his experience, he said that even the public libraries, including university libraries, are not being maintained properly.There are 15,000 rare books at the Institute of Sindhology at Sindh University, Jamshoro, in different languages, including Sindhi, Persian, Arabic and Siraiki, said Prof Bedar Jafferi. "They should be printed so people can read them."Dr Syed Khizer Hayat Naushahi, a research scholar, while speaking on the collection of manuscripts available in libraries of Sindh said that there are more than 80,000 rare manuscripts in Sindh. "Only a few thousands are in Sindhi," he said, adding that rests of them are in either Persian or Arabic.He demanded that Sindh government should digitalise Sindh's libraries and take measures to preserve rare books. He said that with the help of mobile units, thousands of rare manuscripts can also be saved.Illegal tradingThe speakers pointed out that the thousands of Sindh's books have been shifted to other parts of the world especially to Europe through illegal channels. They demanded the government to seriously take steps to preserve rare manuscripts."Even rare manuscripts kept in libraries have been stolen," claimed Prof Bedar Jafferi. "The government should immediately take action against such illegal businesses." He said that in some libraries only the title pages are kept intact. "Original books are missing," he added.PLA general secretary Riaz Ali Khaskheli was of the view that the illegal transfer of books from Sindh to other countries was not a recent phenomenon. "Nadir Shah attacked Sindh and took away books to Iran."Sindh government has never taken any serious step to preserve province's rare books since 1947, pointed out Khaskheli. "Only [subsequent]Punjab governments know the importance of its intellectual heritage and its preservation," he said. "We don't care about our intellectual heritage."Criticising government's measures, Liaquat Memorial Library director Bashir Ahmed Abro said that, unfortunately, dancers and singers are only given importance, not books. "If you save books and give them importance you actually serve the society," he added."The rare and valuable books are being shifted to Europe," Abro said, adding that the capable persons are not being appointed in the institutions who could know the importance of books. "It will continue, if incompetent persons are appointed."Published in The Express Tribune, December 11, 2015.
"A photo exhibition titled 鈥?0 years of Pakistan-German Development Cooperation鈥?was inaugurated on Monday at the Goethe-institut Pakistan by Consul General of Germany in Karachi Dr Tilo Klinner and Goethe-institut Pakistan Director Dr Markus Litz.

The exhibition would run until the end of the current month.

Speaking on the occasion, the German consul general said half a century ago in 1961, the governments of Pakistan and Germany launched their development partnership.

Pakistan was therefore one of Germany鈥檚 first partner countries. Since then, this cooperation has formed an important dimension in the relationship between the two countries and has significantly contributed to deepening the ties between both the governments, as well as between the private sector and civil society of both countries. 鈥淭hus, when celebrating the 50 years of development cooperation, we also celebrate a rich history of institutional and human interactions which has laid a solid foundation for a long-standing friendship between our peoples,鈥?he noted.

The consul general thanked all Pakistani partners at all levels, in particular the colleagues in the Economic Affairs Division in the Ministry of Finance, for many years of harmonious and fruitful cooperation.

鈥淚t is this positive experience that permits us to look ahead to the future with confidence for further joint efforts. Over the past five decades, Pakistan and Germany have implemented numerous development projects and it has been made possible to have selected examples and impacts of these projects presented in the photo-exhibition in words and pictures,鈥?he said.

Today, the priority areas of Pakistan-German development cooperation are good governance, energy, health and basic and vocational education.

In addition, the German Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development supports Pakistan with refugee aid and in coping with natural disasters, most recently following the floods in 2010 and 2011.

In October last year, the parliamentary state secretary in the German Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development, Gudrun Kopp, visited Islamabad and announced that Germany would support emergency aid measures for the survivors of 2011 floods in Sindh and Balochistan provinces with 5.6 million euros."
"Goethe-institut Bangladesh is organizing a special concert titled 鈥淛ISR // Br眉cke: From The Isar To The Ganges,鈥?in partnership with the German Embassy in Dhaka and the Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy (BSA) on March 22 at BSA鈥檚 National Theatre Hall in the capital.

The concert, featuring the German music collective JISR from Munich led by the charismatic linguist, singer, percussionist and Gembri player Dr Mohcine Ramdan, is being organized to celebrate the Mujib Borsho alongside the 60 Years Celebration programme of Goethe-institut in Bangladesh and 50 Years of the eiplomatic relations between Bangladesh and Germany, according to the Goethe-institute Bangladesh.

鈥淭he Munich ensemble JISR has been invited by the Goethe-institut to tour in Sri Lanka, Pakistan, Bangladesh and India. This concert is especially significant, as it is set to be the first tour by a German music collective in Bangladesh since the pandemic started,鈥?the institute said in a press release on Wednesday.

The concert is a part of the project ""The Sound of Faraway Lands,"" and the tour in South Asia is in many ways, about the exchange of musical cultures, according to the organizers.

Mohcine Ramdan's music project is a melting pot of diverse musical styles and traditions. The repertoire of musical influences is considerable: from Arabic classical music and poetry to African Gnawa grooves and German Krautrock, Balkan, Jazz, Tango and Andalusian Flamenco.

The project is described as a snapshot of a musical culture that breaks the boundaries between different musical genres and fills the imagination, unconventionally instrumented and with a great longing for new and unexplored realms of sound.

JISR collective features an ensemble group of talented musicians, and the line-up features Marja Burchard (Keys, Trombone), Roman Bunka (Oud, Guitar), Mohcine Ramdan (Percussion, Gembri, Vocals), Severin Rauch (Drums), Niko Schabel (Alto Sax, Clarinet, Bass Clarinet), Gergely Lukacs (Trumpet) and Marwan Fakir (Violin).

In this concert, a group of Bangladeshi guest musicians will also perform a number of songs together with the JISR and the musicians are Labik Kamal Gaurob (Vocal, Dotara, Khomok), Nazrul Islam (Dhol), Jalal Ahmed (Flute) and Baby Dewan (Vocals, Mondira).

Besides the concert, Goethe-institut Bangladesh will be organizing a multi-disciplinary arts exhibition highlighting cultural projects from across the country with the signature name Goethe Pop Up starting from March 21-23, every day from 3 pm to 8 pm at the Studio space premise, level 8, DrikPath Bhobon, 16 Sukrabad, Panthapath in the capital.

Entry to the concert is free of charge, however, due to the pandemic situation the seating is limited, and the concert-goers are advised to email at [email protected] for the pass."
"Scenic reading of the two contemporary German plays translated into Bangla have been held at the Bangladesh Mohila Samity in the capital.

While welcoming the audience during her inaugural speech on Sunday evening, Dr Kirsten Hackenbroch, Director, Goethe-institut Bangladesh highlighted the significance of the project titled 鈥淐ontemporary German drama in South Asian Languages鈥?to the local theatre scene.

This project aims to familiarize contemporary German plays to the South Asian local theatre scene and audiences alike. This project has been launched by Goethe-institut Mumbai in 2020, focusing on the selection of plays, as well as identifying qualified German to local language translators at the initial stage.

Afterward, 46 translations were produced out of 20 German plays. Some of these plays were translated by just one person, others by several; altogether they were translated into six languages: Bangla, Hindi, Marathi, Sinhalese, Tamil, and Urdu.

According to the Goethe-institut Bangladesh, contemporary German-language drama is characterized by enormous variety. It has long been and continues to be shaped by both a rich tradition and significant international influences.

Many playscripts written in German are known to audiences in Asia primarily through their English translations. It would of course be far preferable to present these plays to the public in Asian languages 鈥?in translations carried out by competent translators working directly from the German.

This would also make it possible for theatre companies who operate in local languages to familiarize themselves with the current German theatre scene, according to the institution.

Read: Dhaka Theatre鈥檚 new play opens with metaphoric presentation on 鈥榲irus鈥?
Those reflections are what gave rise to the project: contemporary German-language drama in six South Asian languages 鈥?Bangla, Hindi, Marathi, Sinhalese, Tamil, and Urdu. These translations are intended first and foremost to be used within India, but will also be available to other Goethe-instituts in Dhaka (Bangla), Colombo (Tamil and Sinhalese) and Karachi (Urdu), and in principle to Goethe Centres and additional theatre companies throughout South Asia.

On Sunday evening, Prachyanat staged the scenic reading of the German play titled 鈥淒ER ZINNSOLDAT UND DIE PAPIERT脛NZERIN鈥?by Roland Schimmelpfennig. Romit Roy translated this play into Bangla.

Directed by Kazi Toufikul Islam Emon, the play featured performances by Diana Meriline, Urmi Saha Ray, Farhad Ahmed Shamim, AKM Itmam, Abdulla Mohammad Sakib, Prajna Tasnuva Rubayyat, Tanji Kun, Yead Khorshid Eashan, Swatee Bhadra, Gopi Devnath, Supti Das Chaity, Nahida Akhter Akhi, Ucchas Talukder, Mohammad Abu Imran, and Audree Ja.

Social organization Bonhishikha staged the scenic reading of the German play titled 鈥淚CH LIEB DICH鈥?(唳唳侧唳唳膏) by Kristo 艩agor on Monday evening. Parthapratim Chattopadhyay translated this play into Bangla.

Directed by Shararat Islam, the two-person scenic reading was performed by Shararat Islam and Samina Yasmin, narrating different roles.

Followed by around 50 minutes of scenic reading, a panel discussion moderated by Syeda Samara Mortada was held.

Sanjida Anwar Preety, Actor, Prachyanat Theatre Troupe and Samina Luthfa, Associate Professor, Dhaka University and Playwright and Actor, theatre troupe Bottala, were among the panellists."
"鈥楲et No One Mistake Us for The Fruit of Violence鈥?underway at Drik

""I was raised by a single mother. Dealing with the excruciating pain of losing her first child and years later her beloved husband, my mother who is a social worker, gracefully raised all three of us whilst having all the qualities that are generally associated with what it means to be a man. Does that mean my mother is masculine?"" -- said Ashfika Rahman inquired during his opening remarks at the at the inauguration of the exhibition, ""Let No One Mistake Us for The Fruit of Violence"".

Curated by Vidisha Fadescha, for the exhibition is an excerpt from Ocean Vuong's On Earth We're Briefly Gorgeous. ""Let No One Mistake Us for The Fruit of Violence"" is a travelling exhibition as part of Goethe endorsed ongoing project ""M3: Man, Male & Masculinity"". With their cultural and educational activities, this South-Asian regional project aims to intrigue discussions about problematic norms of masculinity across the gender spectrum in India and Bangladesh.

The guests at the inaugural ceremony of the event.

The installations, consisting of drawings, audio-visuals and photographs of various contexts, all have one thing in common 鈥?their individual topic has been derived from the theme of patriarchy. The six participating artists at this exhibition are Tsohil Bhatia, Renuka Rajiv, Sandeep Kuriakose, Anurag Minus Varma, Javed Sultan from India, and Ashfika Rahman from Bangladesh.

With hosts Mormee Mahtab of Goethe Goethe-institut Bangladesh and Oliur Sun of Drik, the inauguration was held on August 19 at Drik Gallery. Veteran artist Dilara Begum Jolly, indigenous artist Joydeb Roaja, contemporary visual artist Ashfika Rahman, and director of Goethe-institut Bangladesh Dr Kirsten Hackenbroch were present at the event, among others.

Activist-photographer Dr Shahidul Alam delivered the closing remarks at the inaugural ceremony.



Activist-photographer Dr Shahidul Alam delivered the closing remarks at the event.

The open-for-all exhibition will conclude on August 30. Visitors can enjoy the display from 3:00pm to 8:00 pm, except on public holidays.

The event also has panel discussions, film screening, workshop and cultural sessions scheduled for its closing ceremony. M3 Comics & M3 Activity Workbooks are also available for purchase for a minimal price at the venue. All the revenue generated from this wing will be donated to organizations working to establish gender equality."
"Language is what connects the globe in the most basic way - communication. When you can speak to people in their own language you deepen connections and understanding. A new language is not only a gateway to another culture, but also a fun way to boost your skills and proficiency at academic and professional life. So, let's take a look at some fantastic language courses in Bangladesh and where to find them!

Institute of Modern Languages (IML)

The Institute of Modern Languages (IML) is an establishment of the University of Dhaka dedicated to teaching various modern languages. At present the Institute offers 1-year non-degree courses (120 hours each course) on Bangla (only for foreigners), Arabic, Chinese, Korean, English, French, German, Italian, Japanese, Persian, Russian, Spanish, Turkish and Hindi language courses. In addition to the above courses, M.Phil, Ph.D. programs and 18-months MA in ELT are available at the Institute. Besides, short courses on various languages are also offered. There are also 60-hours courses available for some languages, alongside Junior and Senior Certificate, Diploma and Higher Diploma courses. The course fees will vary with the language and course you choose.

Alliance Fran莽aise de Dhaka

Alliance Fran莽aise operates under local legislation and is managed by a committee made up of prominent personalities in respective countries. Every year more than 6,000 students learn French at Alliance Fran莽aise de Dhaka. with about 2,500 students enrolling for workshop courses. The courses for French as a foreign language conform to the CEFR. Alliance Fran莽aise de Dhaka organises 4 sessions of French courses every year. Each session has a duration of 3 months. There are three age groups: children (9-12), teenagers (13-15) and adults (16+). International exams like DELF, DALF, TCF, TEF and DAEFLE are offered for eligible students.

Goethe-institut Dhaka

The Goethe-institute is one of the most trusted institutions for learning German. It offers a range of courses aiming to teach German successfully for day-to-day or leisure use, as well as professional or study purposes. The contents of these courses are based on the Common European Framework of Reference for Language (CEFR). There are a range of courses from Exam Preparation Courses (Online/Hybrid), Standard Courses (Online/Hybrid) and Intensive Courses (Online/Hybrid) of different durations. The website for Goethe-institut is very efficient and you can choose the duration and depth of course with a probable cost list.

Shield Language Academy Dhaka

With almost 7 years' experience in language teaching, having trained over 5,000 people to date, Shield Language Academy is now a popular name for language enthusiasts. They offer courses on English, Arabic, French, German, Italian, Japanese, Korean, Spanish, Swedish, Danish, Dutch, Finnish, Norwegian, Polish, Portuguese, Russian, Turkish, Thai. Course durations are 14 weeks (in batch), 4 weeks (crash course), 8 weeks (one on one intensive) and corporate service.

Japanese Universities Alumni Association in Bangladesh

The Japanese Universities Alumni Association in Bangladesh focuses on Japanese language courses that are conducted by native Japanese teachers. This language center is supported by the Embassy of Japan in Bangladesh and The Japan Foundation, Tokyo, Japan. JUAAB has been organising classes on Japanese language and culture, as well as Ikebana. Also, it provides counseling services to those who are interested in studying in Japan by an Education Advisor from the Japanese Embassy.

Wings Learning Center

WLC is one of Bangladesh's oldest language training institutions and IDP's IELTS test center. Since its inception, WINGS has helped students to learn English in a professional and academic way and also assists them in developing their spoken English skills to be up to the mark for applying overseas."
"Eminent novelist Rabeya Khatun passed away in the city on Sunday at the age of 85.

According to her family sources, Rabeya Khatun breathed her last at her Banani residence due to old-age complications.

Her body was taken to Bangla Academy premises at 12 pm on Monday and then her body was taken to the Channel-i premise at 3 pm where a namaz-e-janaza took place.

Then the novelist was buried at the Banani Graveyard after Asr prayers.

Rabyea Khatun was born to Maulavi Mohammad Mulluk Chand and Hamida Khatun on December 27, 1935 in Bikrampur in the then British India (now Munshiganj District, Bangladesh),

In her illustrious career spanning over 60 years, Rabeya Khatun wrote over 50 novels and more than 400 short-stories featuring versatile topics. She also wrote a handful of travel blogs.

Khatun's first story Proshno was published in weekly 鈥楯uger Dabi鈥?magazine and her novel 鈥楻ajarbagh鈥?was published in Begum magazine.

She wrote her first novel Madhumati in 1963, depicting the handloom artists鈥?struggles in a fictional narrative, which cemented her position as a novelist in the country.

Ekattorer Noy Maash (1990) is one of her most significant creations which she wrote as a memoir of the War of Liberation in 1971.

Three of her books were adopted for feature films - Kokhono Megh Kokhono Brishti (2003), Megher Pore Megh (2004) and Madhumati (2011).

Khatun also worked in Khawatin magazine edited by Jahanara Imam. She worked as the editor of the literature section of the magazine 鈥楥inema鈥?along with legendary filmmaker Zahir Raihan and later became the editor of monthly 鈥楢ngana鈥?in the 1950s.

For her immense contributions in Bengali literature, Rabeya Khatun was awarded Bangla Academy Literary Award in 1973, Ekushey Padak in 1993 and Independence Day Award in 2017.

Rabeya Khatun married ATM Fazlul Haque, a journalist, critic and filmmaker on July 23, 1,952 (passed away in 1990).

Her son Faridur Reza Sagar is the current managing director of Impress Telefilm Limited and Channel-i, daughter Keka Ferdousi is a noted chef and television cooking show host, another son Farhadur Reza Probal is an architect and her youngest daughter Farhana Kakoly is a homemaker.

BK"
"An online film screening event titled 鈥楤erlinale Spotlight World Cinema Fund鈥?will begin at Goethe-institut in the capital on Friday.

World Cinema Fund (WCF) initiated the film screening series in South Asia (India, Paistan, Srilanka and Bangladesh), said a press release on Saturday.

Also read:19th Dhaka International Film Festival kicks off Saturday

The online series will showcase outstanding international productions in the next four months. In addition to the sessions, each screening will be followed by a live QA Talk with the filmmakers moderated by award-winning auteur Director Kamar Ahmad Simon from Bangladesh.

Kamar himself has been awarded with WCF for his upcoming film 鈥楽hikolbaha鈥?(Iron Stream). All the films have been carefully picked from more than two hundred WCF awarded films. The selected bundle has already been in official selection of many international festivals and made notable audience reception for their cinematic brilliance.

Also read:Curtain rises on 19th Dhaka International Film Festival

The opening edition of the event is scheduled on Friday (29 January) at 7:30 pm, BST with 鈥淎KHER AYAM EL MADINA鈥?(In the Last Days of the City), a film by Tamer El Said. Viewers may watch the film, followed by a live QA Talk by clicking at the film link, which will be shared simultaneously through the Facebook page and website of Goethe-institut Bangladesh as per the film schedule.

AKHER AYAM EL MADINA (In the Last Days of the City) is a Winner of the Caligari Film Award at the Berlin International Film Festival 2016 (Forum) and Best Director at the Buenos Aires International Festival of Independent Cinema.

Also read:Megh becomes ambassador of Indian Children and Youth Film Festival

WCF is a prestigious initiative of the Berlin International Film Festival, along with the Federal Foundation for Culture and in cooperation with the Federal Foreign Office, the support of the Creative Europe/Media Programme, the Secretariat of ACP Group of States and further support of the Goethe-institut.

Goethe-institut Bangladesh is co-hosting the event with different other Goethe-instituts of South-Asian region in their network.

Also read:Award of Cinemaking International Film Festival announced"
"The 197th birth anniversary of legendary Bengali poet and father of Bengali sonnet Michael Madhusudan Dutt is being observed today.

The poet鈥檚 birth anniversary is being celebrated on a small scale due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The Madhu fair, which is organised annually marking Madhusudan鈥檚 birth anniversary at Sagardari, will not be held this year.

鈥榃e will arrange a discussion and cultural programme marking the birth anniversary of Michael Madhusudan Dutt at 3 pm today at Sagardari.

The traditional Madhu fair will not be held this year,鈥?Jashore deputy commissioner Md Tamijul Islam Khan told BSS this morning.

On January 25 in 1824, Madhusudan Dutt was born to landlord Raj Narayan Dutt and Janhabi Devi at Sagardari village under Keshabpur upazila in Jashore district.

Legendary poet Madhusudan, who is called Mahakobi (epic poet) for his tragic epic 鈥楳eghnad Badh Kavya鈥? earned name and fame in the arena of literature for his extraordinary creative works.

Madhusudan Dutt is widely considered to be one of the greatest poets in Bengali literature and the father of the Bengali sonnet. He pioneered what came to be called 鈥楢mitrakshar Chhanda鈥?(blank verse). His first attempt at blank verse was 鈥楽harmistha鈥?in Bengali literature.

鈥淎lways, o river, you peep in my mind/ Always I think you in this loneliness/ Always I soothe my ears with the murmur/ Of your waters in illusion, the way/ Men hear songs of illusion in a dream,鈥?are a few lines of his extraordinary creation 鈥楰apatakkha Nad鈥?in which he showed his deep love towards his country and the river.

Apart from his outstanding talent in authoring poems, Madhusudan Dutt showed prodigious skills as a playwright as he was the first to write Bengali plays in the English style, segregating the play into acts and scenes.

He was also the pioneer of the first satirical plays in Bengali literature.鈥橞uro Shaliker Ghare Ron鈥?and 鈥楨kei Ki Boley Sabhyota鈥?are among his famous satirical plays.

Kaliprasanna Singha, who is famous for his translation of the ancient Hindu epic Mahabharata into Bengali, organised a felicitation ceremony to Madhusudan Dutt to mark the introduction of blank verse in Bengali poetry.

His most famous literary work is sonnet 鈥淜apatakkha Nad鈥? Kapatakkha Nad (river) flows through Jashore, the poet鈥檚 ancestral home. Madhusudan was a gifted linguist and polyglot as he studied Hebrew, Latin, Greek, Tamil, Telugu, and Sanskrit.

Madhusudan passed away at Kolkata on June 29, 1873 at the age of 49, only three days after his wife Henrietta breathed her last. The poet was buried in Kolkata.

BK"
"California on Friday paved the way for Disneyland, other theme parks and outdoor stadiums to welcome guests sooner than expected as it relaxed reopening criteria following a sharp decline in Covid-19 cases and pressure from operators.

The move announced by the state health department will permit ballparks, stadiums and mega-attractions including Disneyland, Magic Mountain and Universal Studios to admit visitors from April 1, according to conditions in their county, and at reduced capacities.

With these improvements, 鈥淐alifornia can begin gradually and safely bringing back more activities, especially those that occur outdoors and where consistent masking is possible,鈥?state health secretary Mark Ghaly said in a statement.

Only outdoor activities are affected by the changes, which come as California鈥檚 governor Gavin Newsom faces mounting pressure and a bid to recall him from office over his handling of the pandemic.

Theme parks will only be allowed to reopen if their county drops below the state鈥檚 most-restrictive coronavirus 鈥渢ier,鈥?and then initially at 15 percent capacity and for California residents only.

Orange County 鈥?where Disneyland is located 鈥?currently remains in the strictest purple tier, as does neighboring Los Angeles county, where several other major tourist attractions are based.

The tiers use infection and positivity rates to set reopening rules, but have themselves been relaxed in recent days as the Golden State鈥檚 brutal winter Covid spike rapidly recedes, and as vaccinations ramp up.

Outdoor sports and live performances with fans will be allowed across the state from April 1, though capacity will again be determined by conditions in the state.

Capacity will be limited to 100 California residents in the worst- hit areas. Theme parks in particular had bristled at restrictions they considered too strict, which would have seen them placed among the last to reopen.

鈥淭hroughout the pandemic, California鈥檚 business community has been committed to protecting the health and safety of workers and customers 鈥?and that won鈥檛 change now,鈥?Newsom鈥檚 senior advisor Dee Dee Myers said.

鈥淲e will continue to work together with our partners across all sectors of the economy, as we reopen safely, sustainably and equitably.鈥?
BK"
"鈥楩utures beyond the Self鈥? which was supposed to continue till April 8, was shut down due to the ongoing lockdown. Photos: Star & Collected

With spiralling Covid-19 cases, the government of Bangladesh announced a seven-day countrywide lockdown, starting from April 5. Art galleries and event spaces are monitoring the situation strictly. While most of them have postponed their public programmes, others have chosen to operate cautiously.

""Flowing & Static"", a group exhibition featuring the works of twelve artists, is underway at Galleri Kaya, Uttara. Initially, the exhibition was supposed to take place from April 2 to 16. Owing to the current circumstances, the event's timeline has been extended to May 7, and its amended visiting hours are now from 11 am 4 pm. ""We have strict policies in place for crowd management, following safety protocols. We are not allowing more than ten visitors inside the venue at a time,"" said Goutam Chakraborty, Director, Galleri Kaya. ""The exhibition catalogue is available online, and we are using social media to communicate with interested clients.""

Artworks presented in ""Flowing & Static"" are mainly still-life, capturing the alluring beauty of floral depiction through the use of watercolor, pastel, charcoal, acrylic and mixed media, contained through canvas and paper. The participating artists are: Samarjit Roy Choudhury, Hashem Khan, Hamiduzzaman Khan, Abdus Shakoor Shah, Iffat Ara Dewan, Ranjit Das, Sheikh Afzal Hossain, Aloptogin Tushar, Anisuzzaman, Monidipa Dasgupta, Shohag Parvez and Shahanoor Mamun.

The group exhibition, ""Dui"" took place simultaneously at Dwip Gallery and Studio 6/6 from March 20 to April 3. As a part of the exhibition, an ""art bazar"" was held from April 1 to 3. Taiara Farhana Tareque, Co-Founder of Studio 6/6, shared that they were planning to continue the ""art bazar"" for longer, but for now, they have postponed all public events. However, they will be arranging individual appointments with art buyers upon special requests, maintaining all safety guidelines. People can also reach out to them online.

Goethe-institut Bangladesh, in partnership with Kala Kendra, began the exhibition, ""Futures beyond the Self"", featuring eleven multidisciplinary artistes, from March 10 at Kala Kendra, Mohammadpur. The exhibition, which was supposed to continue till April 8, was shut down. Goethe-institut Bangladesh's Programme Coordinator Khandaker Md Mahmud Hassan said that they will move forward with their virtual film events, if the lockdown is extended.

""Colors of Tradition"", a duet exhibition by artists Abdus Shakoor and Shambhu Acharya, started on April 3 at Edge Gallery, Gulshan 2. Though originally recognised as a modern artist, Shakoor takes a shift from this vein to explore a distinctly Bangla folk imagery for this exhibition. His pieces, alongside the traditional Potchitras done by Acharya, complement each other marvelously.

Edge Gallery's Manager Md Abu Soyeb mentioned that they have been taking precautions in regards to the pandemic, such as measuring temperatures of visitors before they enter the building, providing hand sanitisers in both liquid and gel forms, and distributing face masks upon requests. Furthermore, only ten guests are allowed inside the gallery at a time, and as the space itself is over 3,000 sqft, people can maintain physical distance easily. Yet, as Covid-19 cases are on the rise again, visitors are quite low in number. ""Colors of Tradition"" is also available for viewers on Edge Gallery's website. It will conclude on April 23.

The authors are respectively: a marketing student from North South University, [email protected]; a postgrad student of English literature, [email protected]."
"Successfully connecting the film-lovers from different corners of the world through its virtual platform, the first-ever Bangladesh European Union Film Festival (BEUFF) concluded on Wednesday after a three-week run to mark the golden jubilee of Bangladesh's independence, as well as of the friendship between the EU and Bangladesh.

It was organised by the European Union's mission in Bangladesh, in partnership with all the EU Member States' individual Embassies in Dhaka: Germany, France, Sweden, Denmark, Netherlands, Italy and Spain, as well as the two cultural centres- Germany's Goethe-institut Bangladesh and the French Alliance Fran莽aise de Dhaka.

The festival featured 7 Bangladeshi films from young aspiring filmmakers, 7 EU feature films, and 7 international short films on climate change.

Read Cannes Film Festival 2021: Movies and Filmmakers under the Limelight

Discussing the festival's success and other aspects, a webinar was arranged on Wednesday with the associates of the festival's organizing partners.

Broadcast live on the Facebook page of the Daily Prothom Alo, the festival was joined by the European Union in Bangladesh's Deputy Head of Diplomatic Mission Jeremy Opritesco, Goethe-institut Bangladesh's Director Dr Kirsten Hackenbroch, Alliance Fran莽aise de Dhaka Director Olivier Dintinger, Director of Operations at RedOrange Media and Communications Petra Van Der Eijk, Dr Nepomuk Zettle from the film department of Goethe-institut Munich, Dhaka International Film Festival's Director Ahmed Muztaba Jamal, and Producer-Director Arifur Rahman from Gupi Bagha Productions Limited.

Hosted by noted filmmaker, media personality and International Film Initiative of Bangladesh (IFIB) President Samia Zaman, discussants on the webinar lauded the participation of the audiences and talked about the new reality of film festivals around the world amid the challenging situation of COVID-19 global pandemic.

Read Suman Ghosh鈥檚 Film Searching for Happiness is to Feature in London Indian Film Festival 2021

""Before starting the festival, we had no other option than to do it virtually, and then we were wondering if we will find any audience, considering the COVID-19 crisis. We thought people would probably be bored by watching the films online as we all have been hearing about online fatigue, but after the festival got started, we were quite surprised to see that the audience was quite high and the engagement was quite strong,"" European Union in Bangladesh's Deputy Head of Diplomatic Mission Jeremy Opritesco said at the webinar.

""So that was an excellent surprise and that led us to the conclusion that having an online festival is probably something that has to be looked at, even in the future when the COVID crisis will be ended,"" he added.

Also read: First-ever Bangladesh European Union Film Festival (BEUFF) kicks off online

Echoing the same, Dr Kirsten Hackenbroch, Director of Goethe-institut Bangladesh said, ""It's the future - the home cinema; the smaller, semi-public living room screenings. I think we are going to see more of the hybrid format and it would be really interesting to explore how we can make use of this new virtual reality. It becomes more private, then again, it opens up more to a global world because we can bring more people together in Q and A sessions much more easily and interactively.""

Dr Nepomuk Zettle, representing the film department of Goethe-institut Munich also agreed with her, adding that the online festivals are challenging yet good additions in the time of COVID-19. He said, ""My personal guess is that we will see more hybrid formats in the future and I am very much hoping that this is not only the first European International Film Festival but also that there are many to come.""

Read Greatest Love Stories in Celluloid: Hollywood鈥檚 Best Romantic Movies of All Time

Alliance Fran莽aise de Dhaka Director Olivier Dintinger said, ""We had no alternative within the COVID-19 situation, yet we managed to reach a new audience through this festival and even reached people who have never come to Dhaka or Chittagong and couldn鈥檛 visit in a normal format. We are still missing the experience of watching movies in cinema halls. It's a completely different dynamic that we have been collaborating with festivals like the Dhaka International Film Festival this year, and I hope that we will be able in coming months to witness more of these hybrid formats.""

Petra Van Der Eijk, Director of Operations at RedOrange Media and Communications said, ""This has been the first-ever European Union Film Festival in Bangladesh and it has been a great success, almost all Bangladeshi films were sold out and even we were asked for extra tickets. That's a very good result I would say, and also, as already said by other discussants, we can reach a broader public around the world which is especially also the goal of the festival and the bigger projects which the film festival belongs to. As for people from the Netherlands, I know for sure they looked at Bangladeshi films and that is really something great.""

Read Rehana Maryam Noor: The Bangladeshi Film in the prestigious list of Cannes

She informed that more than 4,400 people watched the films at this festival while almost 10,000 people visited the dedicated website, and over 1.5 million new visitors have visited the Facebook page of EU to learn about the festival during its timeline.

Producer and Director Arifur Rahman said, ""I really believe online is not the only option and cinema is an experience that needs to be felt within. As artists and filmmakers, we all believe that we can obviously cope-up; for example, if we look at the film history, when sound came - people never thought sound will be 100% compatible with films but now we cannot imagine most of the films without sounds.""

Also read: Curtains down on 14th International Children's Film Festival Bangladesh

""So the same kind of shifting is going on virtually now but it's actually not appropriate in my opinion. Currently, I am in France for the Cannes Film Festival; it's physical and here we can have all the ideal experiences, we can see the emotion of the filmmakers. That's really important in this journey - we have to see the expressions and the filmmakers' journey on their faces. So definitely the format should be hybrid, and as for the online formats - it has its positive-negative both sides.""

Explaining the existing situation in the country, DIFF Director Ahmed Muztaba Jamal said, ""We need support from the bureaucrats and associates. For film censoring, getting funds, getting the permissions and everything else, we have to go through many hardships. It's very complicated as sometimes it gets very difficult to convince the government people of the necessity of a film festival.""

""A film festival can work as an ambassador of a country. It can also help build a strong cultural environment in the country, as well. Cinema is a strong media that can easily reach people, again proved in our DIFF which was organised back in January this year. Many audiences joined our festival in person and joined a lot of seminars and conferences that we organised via the virtual platform. Most notably, the film conference on Satyajit Ray that we arranged this year, was watched by over 40,000 people,"" he informed at the webinar.

Read Female filmmakers of Bangladesh have made their mark in the industry

A dedicated website (www.beuff.org) was launched on June 9, allowing the audiences access to all films and other information related to the festival.

The festival also featured masterclasses, questions/answer sessions with directors, discussions on gender representations in cinema, climate change and a handful of other issues.

Organizers of the festival expect to bring more engaging festivals in the future that can promote EU's cultural exchange with Bangladesh and further shed light on vital issues such as education and skill development, climate change adaptation, food and nutrition security, good governance, safe migration and sustainable reintegration of refugees, empowerment of women and girls: EU's priorities for development cooperation in Bangladesh.

Read Top 10 English Comedy Movies released in 2021"
"Goethe-institutes in Bangladesh and India are set to present a 2-day virtual international conference titled 鈥楳3: Man, Male, Masculine鈥?on Friday, 3 September.

M3: Man, Male, Masculine is a South-Asian regional project on the theme of Masculinities. The project aims to discuss current visions of masculinity across the gender spectrum in Bangladesh and India. It explores the current visions on masculinities across the gender spectrum through various discursive, cultural and educational activities. The International Conference will bring together intellectual and cultural perspectives from experts and artists from South Asia and Europe on the theme of masculinities.

The idea is to provide, through various perspectives and formats, a chance to not only develop an understanding of stereotypes and role models but also reflect on individual perceptions of masculinity. The focuses on masculinities in general with a particular emphasis on the prevailing scenario in Bangladesh and India.

On 3 and 4 September 2021 to explore the different notions of masculinity, how men are perceived and how masculinity is constructed in media, art and performances. And how does all this make young humans, who identify themselves as male, feel?

From the Bangladesh frontier, on 4th September at 5.00 pm BST Esha Aurora (Journalist, Bangladesh) and Fikri Anil Altintas (Writer & #HeForShe Catalyst, Germany) will be in conversation regarding Performing Masculinity. The interactive conversation shall encompass perspectives and contexts of gender performance; the Topic of Honor of ascribed non-white masculinity, Gender-based violence and the concepts of Orientalism in masculinity.

Performing Masculinity will also be discussed within the realm of Contemporary South Asian Cinema. A Panel Discussion moderated by film curator and journalist Meenakshi Shedde. The speakers include- Mostofa Sarwar Farooki (Bangladesh), Rubaiyat Hossain (Bangladesh), Devashish Makhija (India) and Tillotama Shome (India).

The discussion intends to explore how different roles are written for men and women actors. It will also look at how differently men and women are directed and treated onset, gender disparity in pay scales for actors, as well as directors. Exploring childhood events that may have shaped them into the people they are today and how often men watch films directed by women.

Other speakers include Urvashi Butalia (Feminist Researcher & Writer, New Delhi), Florian Fischer (freelance Consultant on Social Issues, Germany), Meena Kandaswamy (anti-caste activist, novelist, India), Michael Meuser (Professor of Sociology, Dortmund University), Sumathi Ramaswamy (Professor of History & International Comparative Studies, Duke University, USA), and more.

Artists: Aditi Mittal (writer, comedian, actor, India), Anamika Joshi (Spoken-word artist, India), Mandeep Raikhy (Dance practitioner & choreographer, India), Susanne Sachsse (actress, Berlin Germany), Kerstin Rickermann & Silke Beller, Film-makers Germany) and more will be performing in an around the same topic.

To participate in the conference via Zoom, click here to register in advance for the sessions on 3 and 4 September, read a media release of Goethe-institut Bangladesh.

BK"
"German cultural institution Goethe-institut Bangladesh, in association with the country鈥檚 first online pay-per-view movie streaming platform Lagvelki, is going to organize an online short film screening session titled 鈥淪hort.film.tour- The German short film award鈥?(鈥楰urz.film.tour- Der Deutsche Kurzfilmpreis鈥? on Thursday from 5 pm to 11 pm.

For this exclusive session, five short films were shortlisted for screening out of thirteen selections that the 鈥淜utz.Film.Tour 2021鈥?package offers.

The nominated films are 鈥淢eeting鈥?(directed by Jannis Alexander Kiefer), 鈥淧ann贸nia Dics茅rete - Land of Glory鈥?(directed by Borb谩la Nagy), 鈥淚n Den Binsen - Rushes鈥?(directed by Clara Zo毛 My-Linh von Arnim), Favoriten 鈥?Favourites (directed by Martin Monk) and Just A Guy, directed by Shoko Hara.

During the 6 hours long screening session, viewers will get free access to watch the mentioned films through the Facebook page of Goethe-institut Bangladesh.

Viewers will also get an opportunity to join in a Live Q&A Talk starting at 8 p.m. with two film directors, Borbala Nagy (Dir. Land of Glory) and Martin Monk (Dir. Favorites). Screenwriter and Director Mahde Hasan will moderate the session.

The German Short Film Award is the most important award to short films in Germany, endowed with the highest amount of money since 1956 to outstanding short film productions.

Since 1998, the nominees and award winners have been touring German cinemas every year, read a media release.

BK"
"Viola player Bahar was practising at her music college in the Afghan capital, when news broke that the Taliban had reached the city.

Terrified of a return to the days when music was forbidden and women were banned from education, she and her classmates rushed home, abandoning their beloved instruments.

""We all ran away. We saved ourselves, leaving the instruments at the institute,"" Bahar tells AFP, using a false name to protect her identity for fear of reprisal. ""I felt like I had lost a family member."" The Taliban, who banned music outright during their brutal and oppressive rule from 1996 to 2001, swept back into power on August 15.

They have promised a more moderate brand of rule this time -- though they have made clear that they will run Afghanistan within the restrictive limits of their interpretation of sharia law. After racing home from the Afghanistan National Institute of Music (ANIM), Bahar was devastated to learn that Taliban militants had occupied the campus, turning its classrooms into dormitories. ""I feel like I am no longer living. Physically, I am alive, but the Taliban have taken away my soul,"" she says, breaking down in tears.

- Abandoned instruments -

Bahar was introduced to the college when she was 12 years old, and she says the viola quickly became her ""best friend"". ""Music is food for the soul,"" she says, adding that she has performed in India, Sweden, the United Kingdom and Azerbaijan. ""I feel extremely peaceful when I play the viola, especially when we play together in the girls' orchestra,"" she adds.

During a visit by AFP to the college, no music can be heard in its corridors -- all that can be heard is the chatter and squabbling of Taliban soldiers. Armed guards cradle Kalashnikovs in the courtyard, shaded by trees with swirling treble clefs spray-painted on to their trunks. A mural depicting a burst of multi-coloured musical symbols stand out against the giant armoured door and a nearby guard post. A Taliban guard shows AFP a storeroom full of intact musical instruments that were left behind, after reports that everything had been trashed.

The caretaker says the group's leaders had ordered him to protect the instruments. Trumpets, saxophones and flutes are stacked on shelves, opposite violins and violas in cases, while dozens of Afghan tabla drums occupy another storage unit. Propped up on a bespoke rack in the centre of the storeroom are about a dozen traditional instruments: lute-like tamboors and single-stringed rubabs. Abandoned practice rooms are each furnished with a keyboard or piano.

A workshop remains in the same state as when it was hurriedly vacated in mid-August -- violins are lined up waiting for new strings, a cello lays mid- repair and tools are scattered around an electric keyboard. - A secret guitar - Speaking to AFP in Kabul, 28-year-old guitarist Awa says his room used to be stacked with musical instruments. But fearing the Taliban, he has now destroyed almost all traces of his musical career -- except for one favourite guitar that he has hidden away.

The Kabul University graduate and tutor at the ANIM has stopped posting to his YouTube channel where he used to upload lessons, and no longer replies to comments on his social media accounts. He has performed with some of Afghanistan's top music stars, but he now worries for his family's safety.

""It's natural that if you were involved in music in Afghanistan you would be afraid. Sooner or later the Taliban will come after musicians,"" says Awa, also using a pseudonym to protect his identity. ""Since they arrived, life has been hell. We had big dreams, but now our ambitions don't exist anymore.""

ANIM's founder Ahmad Sarmast, who now lives in Australia, says he fears for the future of Afghan music. Since the takeover, he has written to the Taliban's leaders to plead for access to music -- especially for children. ""I hope they will allow us to continue to do our work for the best interests of the Afghan people,"" he says.

BK"
"Director Abdullah Mohammad Saad's second directorial effort ""Rehana Maryam Noor"" is set to be Bangladesh's only submission to the 94th Academy Awards this year.

The Coordinator of Oscar Committee Bangladesh, Abdullah Al Maruf told media outlets, ""Within a day or two, the judging panel will preview the film to check its technical qualities before sending it to the Oscars.""

Prominent personality Habibur Rahman is heading the nine-member committee in charge of selecting the Bangladeshi films for the Best International Feature Film category of the Oscars.

Presented by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, the 94th Academy Awards ceremony will be held at the Dolby Theatre in Hollywood, Los Angeles, California.

Earlier, Rehana Maryam Noor鈥?was selected for the 74th Cannes Film Festival as the first Bangladeshi and the only South Asian film at the 鈥淯n Certain Regard鈥?section.

After Cannes, 鈥淩ehana Maryam Noor鈥?was invited to Melbourne, Busan and London Film Festivals.

The film鈥檚 premise revolves around a private medical college teacher, Rehana, who singe-handedly wages a fight for justice on behalf of her 6-year-old daughter and one of her college students.

The film was submitted to the Bangladesh Film Censor Board on September 12 and is currently awaiting release.





Powered by Froala Editor"
"The Goethe-institut Bangladesh is celebrating its 60 years in Dhaka with a unique project, highlighting cultural projects from across the country with the signature name Goethe Pop Up.

鈥淭he cultural relationship between Bangladesh and Germany has spanned across various subjects including art and education and included themes such as sustainability and technology. While the Goethe-institut has been located in Dhaka since 1961, linking up with art initiatives both in and beyond the capital is of utter importance for the Goethe-institut鈥檚 network across South Asia.鈥?states Dr Kirsten Hackenbroch, Director of the Goethe-institut Bangladesh. 鈥淭o celebrate our 60 years in Dhaka, we called for proposals for Goethe Pop Up ideas from curators, academics, and specialists from all across Bangladesh.鈥?
Goethe Pop Up is conceived as a vessel for hybrid, ambitious projects that speak across and between frameworks, both conceptual, as well as physical. It develops new ideas that resonate with local audiences as well as the Goethe-institut's objectives to strengthen existing cultural relations and to foster new and meaningful ways of cross-national exchanges with the purpose of reflecting on and producing knowledge.

鈥淔rom numerous high-quality concepts, reflecting the diversity of expressions and representing the variety of unique approaches, the Goethe-institut selected eight curatorial partnerships or artist collectives to integrate into an ecosystem of multiple Goethe Pop Ups across Bangladesh, celebrating our anniversary this late autumn.鈥?shares Dr Hackenbroch who has a long history with Bangladesh. Before she joined the Goethe-institut Bangladesh as their Director in 2017, the trained urban planner has been travelling to Bangladesh regularly for her doctoral research on public spaces in Dhaka.

The projects, their curators, and locations are 鈥楴ative Roots鈥?by Asifuzzaman Khan and Younguang Mro in Bandarban, 鈥楩loating Dream comes Home.鈥?by Ashfika in Chalan Beel, Singra, Natore, 鈥楤ook Bakery鈥?by Shohrab Jahan in Chittagong, 鈥楤hati-scape鈥?by Arfun Ahmed in the Bhati region and online, 鈥極nce there were Rivers鈥?by Mahenaz Chowdhury and Simone Simonato in Demra and Berlin, 鈥?th Hill Film Festival鈥?by Adit Dewan and the Jum Film Forum in Rangamati, 鈥樴Ν唳唰囙Π 唳唳栢Θ唰嵿Α唰?In the Terrains of Fear鈥?by Ghartera in Dhaka, 鈥楽ister Library鈥?by Aqui Thami and HerStory Foundation in Dhaka and online, and 鈥楰ahichal鈥?by Ruxmini Reckvana Q Choudhury in Dinajpur,

The Goethe Pop Up Festival kicked off with a group show 鈥業n the Terrains of Fear鈥?at Lamatia, Dhaka in September. ""The traditional gallery space often intimidates audiences with its rules that set who the viewer can be or can't be. But we believe that art should be interactive and that it is for everybody,"" says Kazi Tahsin Agaz Apurbo, one of the curators of Ghartera.

From October 24-29, 2021, the second Pop Up called KAHICHAL is inviting to Dinajpur. Various artists, who are either based, born, or raised in Dinajpur town and artists who discovered the town for the first time, have been collaboratively working together, looking at the architecture, townscape, and the people living at Bahadur Bazar and nearby areas to develop their ideas.

The concept is created by curator, art writer, and researcher Ruxmini Reckvana Q Choudjury, who founded the platform 鈥楽ingularity鈥?to address social stigma and stereotypical behaviors through art. The local art organization in Dinajpur 鈥楪allery Sharang鈥?is an implementation partner of Kahichal.

Kahichal derives from a Dinajpur dialect and can be interpreted as chaos, uproar, or ruction - but does not carry a negative notion. The people living in this town are Bengalis, Biharis, Marwaris, Paschimas, Polia, Santal, and Orao. 鈥淭here is a certain harmony that can be seen between them all,鈥?elaborates Ruxmini Choudhury, who is a Dinajpur native. Kahichal will investigate the diversity of the town, focusing on the variety of languages, people, and their lifestyles.

From October 24-27, 2021, Kahichal is conducting engagement activities, such as ceramic, painting, printmaking workshops, performances, installations, photo and video documentation at exciting locations, including the METI School with Dipshikha in Rudrapur, Dinajpur Rajbari, Kantojew Temple, Nayabad Mosque, Dinajpur Natya Samity, and Gallery Sharang, Dinajpur.

The Kahichal Festival will take place on 29 October 2021, from 4-8pm at Shilpakala Academy Dinajpur.

鈥淜ahichal will give the opportunity for the people of Dinajpur to look at their own culture through a different lens and for the people from other places to learn about the diversity of Dinajpur town,鈥?says Ruxmini Choudhury.

Artistes are amongst others Md Rajiuddin Choudhury W, Anisul Haque Rony, Farah Sultana Shama, Fatema Islam Prima, Siddik Ibn Wahid, Emran Sohel, Farzana Ahmed Urmi, and Monon Muntaka.

Powered by Froala Editor"
"The 5th Hill Film Festival took place from 4 to 6 November at the Khudro Nrigosthir Sangskritik Institute, the cultural institute in Rangamati, organised by Jum Film Forum.

The festival focuses on films made in the different languages of the different indigenous communities, living in the Chittagong Hill Tracts.

''This year we received three films, which were particularly made for this festival. All of them were made by indigenous filmmakers from the Chittagong Hill Tracts.

This is a major achievement of the festival, incepted in 2014. A few aspiring filmmakers said to me that they are motivated to initiate their own projects now since they feel in good company which is another objective met for us,鈥?said the festival director and filmmaker Adit Dewan.

This year, 24 films were screened under seven categories. Short films and documentaries from the Bawm, Chakma, and Marma indigenous communities have been selected under the competition category, and under feature fiction, a film from the Tripura community. Along with the local films, other filmmakers from across Bangladesh and other countries have been screened at the festival.

The Special Screening category covered 鈥楳atir Projar Deshe鈥?an acclaimed feature film, directed by Bijon Imtiaz, 鈥楩elim-Cinema for Identity鈥?a documentary, directed by Adit Dewan and Turin Tanchangya, 鈥楽tranger鈥檚 Question鈥?a short fiction, directed by Santua Tripura, and 鈥楰humi I Awmnai Rita鈥?a documentary by Shuvashish Chakma.

Hill Classics were 鈥楧ulu Kumori鈥?(2006), the first Chakma feature film from Bangladesh, directed by Tarun Chakma, and 鈥楢ndolot Pahr鈥?(1996), the first film made in the Chittagong Hill Tracts, directed by Foyaz Zahir and produced by Jum Aesthetic Council (JAC).

In the Retrospective category, two German films 鈥楩rom Morn to Midnight鈥?by Karlheinz Martin and 鈥楢lice in the Cities鈥?by Wim Wenders were screened.

""The 5th edition of the Hill Film Festival attracted people from Rangamati by showing them films from home, as well as abroad. For the competition segment, films were accepted from across the country. The audience that came from other parts of the country was able to experience the diverse culture, watching the films. The festival鈥檚 motivation is to focus and promote films from the Chittagong Hill Tracts. We aspire to become an international film festival in the future,鈥?said Santua Tripura, festival coordinator and filmmaker.

Three Special Jury, one Best Short, and one Best Documentary Award were awarded.

The Special Jury Award winners were 鈥楪omeera鈥?by Deepak Roy, 鈥楾he Home in Sound鈥?by Fuaduzzaman Fuad, and 鈥楢 Tale of a Hilly Girl鈥?by Sing Mong Prue Marma.

The Best Documentary Award winner was 鈥楪reen Slave鈥?by Kamruzzaman and the Best Short Film Award winner was 鈥楻edo Songvagot鈥?by Sujalo Chakma.

The special guests of the prize-giving ceremony were Rani Yan Yan, Advisor to the Chakma Circle Chief, Dr Kirsten Hackenbroch, Director, Goethe-institut Bangladesh, Runel Chakma, Director, Khudro Nrigosthir Sangskritik Institute Rangamati, Joydeb Roaza, artist, and Shuvashish Chakma, filmmaker.

The Furomoan Goopy Bagha Short Film Grant was awarded to Jarin Chakma (Bablu) for his short film project 鈥楴uo Sulum鈥?(A New Frock). The short film will be made in the Chakma language.

The partners of the 5th Hill Film Festival are Goethe-institut Bangladesh, Khudro Nrigosthir Sangskritik Institute Rangamati, Goopy Bagha Production Limited, Supporting People and Rebuilding Communities (SPaRC), Hill Resource Centre, and Drik, read a Goethe-institut Bangladesh media release.

BK"
"As part of Goethe-institut Bangladesh鈥檚 60 years anniversary project 'Goethe Pop Up Festival', multiple events are being held, focusing on environmental challenges and sustainable futures - organized by Broqu茅, SICA, and Goethe-institut Bangladesh until 22 November.

To address the deteriorating conditions of the rivers in climate-vulnerable Bangladesh, Broqu茅 has premiered the short documentary film 鈥極nce There Were Rivers鈥? created and directed by Dhaka-based Mahenaz Chowdhury, founder and zero-waste designer of Broqu茅, in collaboration with Berlin-based Simone Simonato, founder of SICA UPCYCLING DESIGN, on 18 November. The film is available on www.thebroque.com.

The first screening took place at Sonargaon, Narayanganj district together with the people interviewed for the documentary film, their families and neighbours, hosted by the flim maker Mahenaz Chowdhury and Goethe-institut Bangladesh at Rajon Miah鈥檚 jamdani atelier. Miah is the owner of Sonia Jamdani, who was one of the interviewees for the documentary.

The film captures the lives of the jamdani weaving community and their connection to the river and how over the years, growing river pollution impacted the value of their revered craft.

鈥淎s time passes, we fade into dust, but films like this, tells our story for the new generations to realize the importance of caring about our lives, our rivers and value our craft. I appreciate the initiative taken by Mahenaz in making such a beautiful film,鈥?says Rajon Miah.

Encapsulating the wholesome event in the midst of Sonargaon鈥檚 lush greenery, Mahenaz Chowdhury adds, 鈥淲ithout the rivers, there will be no life, we need to acknowledge as the nation鈥檚 growth depends on urbanization & industrialization, we cannot separate ourselves from nature. We have the responsibility to protect and conserve our ecosystem and for that we have to contain consumerism in all possible ways.鈥?
The premiere was accompanied by Arifur Rahman, Bappy Mondol, and Aasif U Hamid from Goopy Bagha Productions Limited, shooting the Goethe-institut Bangladesh鈥檚 鈥?021 Goethe Pop Up Festival鈥?documentary across Bangladesh.

To continue the discourse of sustainability and river pollution, the Dhaka based exclusive premiere will be held at the Independent University, Bangladesh (IUB) 'Lecture Gallery' in Dhaka on Saturday, 20 November at 3:00 pm. The panellists are Dr K. Ayaz Rabbani (Head, Dept. of Environmental Science & Management), Dr Abdul Khaleque (Professor, Dept. of Environmental Science & Management) and Md. Ekhtekharul Islam (Senior Lecturer, Club Coordinator, Green Planet Club, IUB Dept. of Environmental Science & Management), moderated by Mahenaz Chowdhury. The event is organized by Green Planet Club, IUB, read a Goethe-institut Bangladesh media release.

BK"
"The 22nd death anniversary of Begum Sufia Kamal, country's trailblazing woman activist, poet and educationist was observed on Saturday.

The day was observed in a befitting manner by different socio-cultural organisations, unlike last year鈥檚 limited programs due to the pandemic being near its peak.

Commemorating the eminent personality, President Abdul Hamid and Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina issued separate massages.

Besides, several socio-cultural organisations including Bangladesh Mahila Parishad remembered the poet on social media.

Bangladesh Mahila Parishad is the organization of which Sufia Kamal was the founding president.

A woman ahead of her time, Sufia Kamal was instrumental in naming the first women鈥檚 dormitory of Dhaka University as Rokeya Hall after Begum Rokeya, the legendary educationist who was her own inspiration.

Born on June 20, 1911 at Shayestabad, Barishal to Abdul Bari and Sabera Begum, Begum Sufia Kamal went on to become a civil society leader and a pioneer activist for women鈥檚 rights. She played active roles in the 1952 Language Movement, the oppressions against the nation before and during the 1971 Liberation War and every human rights movement in independent Bangladesh till her demise.

Despite lacking formal education during her childhood, she learned multiple languages at her home including Bengali, Hindi, English, Urdu, Arabic, Kurdish and Persian. Her first book of poems, Sanjher Maya (The Eventide Spell), was published from Kolkata in 1938 and praised by legendary litterateur Kazi Nazrul Islam and Rabindranath Tagore.

As a poet and writer, she then went on authoring more than a dozen volumes of poetry and several volumes of short stories, short novels, travelogues, etc. Her journal entries in Ekatturer Diary (Diary of 71) narrated the horrific stories during the 1971 Liberation War. She was the founding editor of Begum, country's maiden women鈥檚 magazine.

Sufia Kamal was the founding-chairperson of The Bangladesh Women鈥檚 Rehabilitation Board, Bangladesh Rural Advancement Committee (now Brac), and Dustha Punarbasan Sangstha. She was the president of Chhayanaut, Bangladesh Protibondhi Foundation and Nari Kalyan Sangstha.

Sufia Kamal received a large number of awards including the Tamgha-i-Imtiaz (1961), a major national award conferred by the Pakistani government that she returned in 1969 in protest at the then government鈥檚 oppressive treatment to Bengali people. Her major achievements include Bangla Academy Award for Literature (1962), Ekushey Padak (1976), Jatiya Kabita Parishad Award (1995), Women鈥檚 Federation for World Peace Crest (1996), Begum Rokeya Padak (1996), Deshbandhu CR Das Gold Medal (1996), Independence Day Award (1997), Czechoslovakia Medal (1986) and more.

Besides, the National Public Library in Dhaka is named the Sufia Kamal National Public Library and Bangladesh National Museum named one of its main auditoriums in her honour.

Sufia Kamal passed away on November 20, 1999. She was survived by her three daughters and two sons, including Sultana Kamal, a noted human rights activist and former adviser in the Caretaker government of Bangladesh.

TH"
"A day-long show presenting the project outcome by the three Residency Participants of the smARTer Digital Realities (SDR) project was held on Monday in DrikPath Bhobon of Dhaka's Panthapath.

Dr Kirsten Hackenbroch, Director, Goethe-institut Bangladesh inaugurated the exhibition and thanked the three residency participants and the facilitator from Dhaka for their outstanding contribution to this regional project and skilfully presenting its outcome through this day-long show. Later the three participants gave a talk to share their exciting experiences and took through the residency program to the attending audience.

Artist Najmun Nahar Keya supported the Smarter Digital Realities project as the Facilitator from Dhaka and the three Residency participants from Bangladesh are; Jewel A Rob, Sadia Marium and Faiaz Rafid.

As part of the project, the SDR Dhaka recently launched its own website; https://sdrdhaka.com/

Smarter Digital Realities is a project conceived and conceptualised by Sandbox Collective, in collaboration with the Goethe-institut and Max Mueller Bhavan and curated by Padmini Ray Murray, read a Goethe-institut Bangladesh media release.

BK"
"Courtesy

The German play will be read online on November 4 at 7pm

The Goethe-institut Bangladesh in partnership with HerStory Foundation will host a digital circle reading of ""My Young and Foolish Heart"" a play by Anja Hilling in English on November 4 at 7pm via ZOOM. The event is open to an adult audience upon registration and the text will be provided. The short 6-character play explores the topics of memory, will, love and interpersonal connections.

About the play

On a very normal day in a very normal block of flats, Miss Schl眉ter on the fourth floor decides it is to be her last: 鈥淎t three o鈥檆lock, sharp, I will be a tragic woman,鈥?she says. Yet she is not particularly poor, old or ugly 鈥?at most a little lonely and, above all, a perfectionist who plans everything down to the last detail.

Six people live out their lives, cross each other鈥檚 paths and get to know each other bit by bit. Each of them is by turns the observer and the observed, the narrator and the narrated so that the repetition of the same situations gradually builds up into something approaching a multi-perspective 3D puzzle.





Also read: Science Film Festival begins online

At the end, the postman lies dead in the laundry room but, despite her firm intentions, Miss Schl眉ter has not killed herself and Paula Lachm盲r, who has spoken her first word in 69 days, spontaneously invites Miroslaw to try some goulash. A kaleidoscope of catastrophes, in which the characters live cut off from each other in their little cells, becomes a colourful curiosity cabinet populated by wistful urban neurotics. Connections are established, monologues become discussions and an old song by Doris Day floats over the whole piece.

Surprisingly, however, none of these alarmingly skewed normal existences is even just a little bit exaggerated. After all, who says caretakers always have to talk like caretakers? And what do caretakers talk like anyway? Or postmen? Or rape victims? At first, the half dozen stories of unspectacularly messed-up lives and loves circle unobtrusively around each other, then they collide with the precision of a delicate mechanism like a handful of billiard balls that sometimes knock each other off their paths through life or miss a black hole by millimetres. Restrained by just enough wit to rule out pity.

About the writer

Born in 1975, Anja Hilling, is a graduate of the course in creative writing for the stage at the University of the Arts, Berlin, where she studied from 2002 to 2006 after doing a degree in theatre studies and German literature at Munich and Berlin. It was while she was at the University of the Arts that she wrote her first play. This earned her an invitation to the St眉ckemarkt at the 2003 Berlin Theatertreffen, where she was awarded the Dresdner Bank Young Dramatists鈥?Prize."
"Goethe-institut Bangladesh will screen short films to celebrate the shortest night of the year | IMDB

Biotop, directed by Paul Scholten is a 12 min documentary set in Neuperlach, a quaint Munich suburb

To celebrate the shortest night of the year, June 21, Goethe-institut Bangladesh is screening seven German short films. In the event titled Short Export 2019, these carefully curated films will be exhibited with English subtitles at 5pm at Goethe-institut auditorium, Dhanmondi. The films will include documentaries, fictions and animations.

Biotop

Biotop, directed by Paul Scholten is a 12 min documentary set in Neuperlach, a quaint Munich suburb. It is a safe neighbourhood, where people know, and greet each other. Everybody has their own backyard. Single car garages line the narrow footpaths. But for some time now that peacefulness is troubled, because refugees are supposed to move in next door. Some of the residents are putting up noise protection walls, as they expect a rise in noise levels. Biotope shows the life of the locals, and gets to the bottom of the reason for building that wall.

Neko No Hi (Cat Days)

After a trip to the doctor, a little boy wonders if he may secretly be a cat. With this premise, Cat Days is an 11min animation directed by Jon Frickey.

Tracing Addai

This is a true story about a war, and the tragic impact it has on the lives of three people. Helmed by Esther Niemeier, this is a 30 min animated documentary.

Am Cu Ce- Pride

Romanian truck driver Stancu is torn between delivery pressure, and the concern about his nephew Dragan in Pride. This 19 min fiction is directed by Hannah Weissenborn.

Other films at the event will include Halmaspiel (Chinese Checkers), a 15 min animated documentary by Betina Kuntzsch, Fest, a 3 min experimental animation by Nikita Diakur, and Carlotta's Face, a 5 min animated documentary by Fr茅d茅ric Schuld, Valentin Riedl."
"Eco but desirable 鈥?a global agenda for Planet Fashion means looking good with a clear conscience. Essentially an awakening for the fashion industry at large, eco-friendly, ethical and sustainable clothing are slowly surging into the market, with zero compromises when it comes to beauty and appeal. The most recent championship of the practice was a local fashion design exhibition titled 'Local International.'

'Local International' is the product of an international cultural exchange program between Bangladesh and Germany, initiated by Goethe-institut Bangladesh, Weissensee School of Art and Design Berlin, Berlin University of the Arts, and is in cooperation with BGMEA University of Fashion and Technology.

Via an itinerary of workshops, visits to Berlin Fashion Week and sustainable fashion production sites such as those of Beximco's, a textile giant, and meetings with NGOs and representatives of the Bangladeshi and German textile industries, a singular focus persists; sustainability and fair trade methods. The purpose here is to inspire fashion designers and students to come up with individualistic and creative concepts and collections, keeping sustainability in mind. The project is led by Prof Heike Selmer of the Weissensee School of Art and Design Berlin and Prof Valeska Schmidt-Thomsen, Berlin University of the Arts, the benefits of which are a two-way street.

""Bangladesh is the most important fashion country in the world, with many production lines outsourced there. But many of our designers and students only know this by hearsay. On the other hand, Bangladeshi designers often find themselves making clothes for western labels without much exposure to foreign markets. Their references are pages on the internet, but to make winter clothes for German customers, you need to experience winter in Germany,"" discusses Prof Heike.

""Through Local International, designers and fashion students of Germany and Bangladesh are enriched as they are invited to visit industrial operations and design studios in both countries to get an insight into the product and the market to realise what really makes companies in this industry tick. This first-hand experience is, therefore, very different from finding out about them via webpages,"" she continues.

And the fashion exhibition was what unfolded.

One of the exhibits on show was 'Heartfelt Stitches' by MD Iftekher Rahman that upcycled the already-recycled timeless nakshi kanthas to make wraps, coats and capes in simple cuts and oversized patterns. MD Shamsad Hasnine, with 'Heal the World,' reusing tires, bicycle accessories and jute to make unisex sandals, and Rayed Barkat's 'Back to the Roots' introducing its audience to versatile articles of clothing made from jute, were just some of the displays to look out for.

Moreover, Natasha Von Hirschhausen's 'The Essence and Desire Story' by MD Al-Amin Mithu took inspirations from visits to 'Living Blue: Best of Bangladesh,' a Rangpur-based community of artisans and quilters practising sustainability.

More to look out for were the exhibits titled 'Lifecycle and Enlightenment of the Given,' where Nusrat Rahman Bidita breathed new life into timeworn jamdani fabrics, and Viktoria Pichler partnered with Milan Friedrich to take apart old t-shirts and re-assemble them to make marbled surfaces. Both to reduce textile waste.

Rafia Akter combined style and function by transforming outerwear like jackets into backpacks using zippers through her collection 'Zip to Transform,' and Artur Davtyan used the predictable apron as an accessory to create new looks and silhouettes in handloom organic denim for his collection titled 'Add On.'

Afsara Ferdousi Wormey used indigo tie-dyed t-shirts to promote charming messages on sustainable fashion and 'Let's Work Together' by Laura Hansen took on the endeavour of making customers more aware of the origin of their clothing and people involved in each step of garment production.

The exhibition, which ran from 23 to 28 April, 2019, at Dhanmondi's Gyantapas Abdur Razzaq Bidyapeeth, saw innovation stitched and dyed into every article of clothing on display. The revolution it stirred advocated sustainability in all its possible forms, and the reception it received will only echo the movement further as there is a lot more we can still do.

Photo: Goethe-institut/Ahadul Karim"
"The screening a 28-minute short film titled 鈥楳eenalaap鈥?(Fish Monologue鈥?, directed by Suborna SenjuteeTushee, held on Sunday at Goethe-institut Bangladesh auditorium in Dhanmondi of the capital.

Prior to the above short film screening, another 10-minute-length experimental film 鈥楶arapar鈥?(English title: Crossing Over) by the same director was shown to the audience. Another highlight of the event was the lively moderation of the Q&A discussion session with the filmmaker Tushee by the President of Short Film Forum, Zahidur Rahim Anjan after the end of the screening of two films.

This screening was the sixth edition of the 鈥楾hrough Her Eyes鈥?film screening and Q&A discussion series, organised jointly by the Goethe-institut Bangladesh, in cooperation with, the International Film Initiative of Bangladesh (IFIB).

Dr Kirsten Hackenbroch, Director, Goethe-institut Bangladesh, in her welcoming note said, 鈥淚t is wonderful to see how 鈥楾hrough Her Eyes鈥?has become a platform not only to promote for female filmmakers. It has also become a space for everyone in the film community to network, and by doing so to overcome the gender biases.鈥?
Samia Zaman, President of the International Film Initiative of Bangladesh (IFIB), in her speech mentioned that, the IFIB tries to work with the young filmmakers for capacity building. 鈥淚t was an honour to be able to show Suborna Senjuti Tushee鈥檚 films in the latest version of Through Her Eyes. I am glad to see THE is becoming a gathering space for filmmakers just as we envisaged. Having another Film Institute, alumni and President of Short Film Forum conducting the Q&A gave our program a special resonance,鈥欌€?she said.

BK"
"Artistic expression has the power to influence the society by changing opinions, initiating dialogues and translating experiences across space and time. Artist Olani Ewunnet projected these ideas throughout her talk, Geographies of Imagination, at Goethe-institut Bangladesh, recently. The talk was organised by Goethe-institut Bangladesh, in association with the Samdani Art Foundation (SAF) and SAVVY Contemporary, Berlin, as a prologue to the upcoming Dhaka Art Summit.

Ruxmini, the moderator of the talk, introduced DisOthering: Beyond Afropolitan and Other Labels, an initiative by SAVVY Contemporary, which is quite apt for Dhaka right now. Located in the African quarter of Wedding in Berlin, the art space engages in its neighborhood鈥檚 history and socio-political realities, which are entangled with the reflections and discourses of DisOthering: Beyond Afropolitan and Other Labels. Geographies of Imagination is an ongoing research project of this initiative. An essential part of the research project is a timeline on cartographic power, which was first rooted in SAVVY Contemporary鈥檚 locality in Berlin, the place that hosted the 1884 Congo Conference. During the event, Olani discussed her work with SAVVY Contemporary, focusing on Geographies of Imagination.

鈥淪ince we are located in a space which has colonial construction and history, the concept of the project began essentially in response to the construction of otherness. It is a long-term trajectory in response to our neighbourhood,鈥?explained Olani.

For Dhaka Art Summit 2020, this cartographic timeline will be further developed and activated, taking Dhaka itself as a starting and dialogical pivot from which to draw new lines and connections. Olani, an urban designer, researcher, and sound artist, came to Dhaka to explain her project and see if it resonates with the local people. 鈥淲hen you enter any space you have to be mindful of the reality of your peers and their histories and how that might manifest in the interpersonal relations,鈥?she says. 鈥淭he main idea of Savvy Contemporary is the deconstruction of the west and the non-west. In this context, the most important factor for me is to listen and be open to ideas of people and understand how they think.鈥?
Olani gathered important insights about the notion of 鈥榙is-othering鈥?from the audience. Artists and practitioners from different sectors attended the session. 鈥淥ne day in Dhaka is worth a month鈥檚 work in Berlin. It is very exciting to see how people from all walks of life come to experience the Dhaka Art Summit. I have seen the photographs and visited the location,鈥?says Olani. 鈥淭he opportunity to have thousands of people reflect on the work we have dedicated our time to in Berlin and to connect it to their stories and understand their ideas will be special and beautiful.鈥?
Geographies of Imagination: 鈥榙is-othering鈥?art of the non-west,2019-10-26 00:00:00,Urban designer"

 focusing on the ongoing research project Geographies of Imagination



 and sound artist living in Berlin. Her practice largely examines the inter

 in its Berlin iteration

 she said.

 focusing on the ongoing research project Geographies of Imagination. An essential part of the project is a timeline on cartographic power

 taking this time

 Assistant Curator of the Samdani Art Foundation

 Samdani Art Foundation

鈥?she commented.



 the German author

 with his slouchy wardrobe of checked shirt and loose-fitting trousers

 in Rhineland-Palatinate

 he says

 mostly members of the Santal community

 when he came with a group of Santal boys and girls as part of an initiative by the Goethe-institut Bangladesh. ""We met with Santals in Bangladesh. So there was a joint performance of dance and songs. It was quite a revelation for us when we learned that the Santals of West Bengal and the Santals of Bangladesh had exactly the same culture. Within a few minutes

 his work in translation in particular. How difficult is it to translate Tagore?

 of me to try to translate Tagore's poetry from Bangla into German. It has to be understood that Tagore didn't really translate his poetry from Bangla into English. It was rather a paraphrase鈥攍yrical prose鈥攁n approximation of the content

 is to preserve the authenticity of the source material and at the same time accurately capture the nuances specific to the Bangla language and culture. ""I was aware of the many difficulties that exist in translating poetry from Bangla into German

 is taking over the profundity of serious literature. K盲mpchen is a believer

 causing rapid climate change. In his poetry

 both in India and Bangladesh


"Students, parents enjoy the opening ceremony of the exhibition at Goethe-institut | Courtesy

This poster exhibition is created by German historians and educators Ute and Bettina Frevert, and different canvasses display 20 different emotions, including indignation, disgust, and enthusiasm. Each poster and photo convey strong messages to society

If you pay a visit to the Goethe-institut in Dhanmondi, the on-going poster exhibition will mesmerize you. The walls of the institut are covered with colourful posters made with various photos.

The exhibition, The Power of Emotions. Germany 19 | 19 brings a unique experience for the visitors to have a look at the emotional-historical perspective, illustrating the political and social impact of fear, hope, love, and rage in Germany

PASCH launched the exhibition on Germany's history of the past 100 years is a global network of 1,800 schools aiming to arouse and sustain interest in and enthusiasm for modern-day Germany, and its language.

The Goethe-institut supports five partner schools in Bangladesh, under Schools: Partners for the Future (PASCH), offering German language classes at different levels.

This poster exhibition is created by German historians and educators Ute and Bettina Frevert, and different canvasses display 20 different emotions, including indignation, disgust, and enthusiasm. Each poster and photo convey strong messages to society.

One of the displayed posters, Trust, consisting of various photos by AP and Picture Alliance, depicts the German-Dutch border in 1945. That was the time when many Germans trusted the National Socialist leadership. Caption of a West Germany election poster read: ""Women, have trust! Vote for the Union-CDU. This poster is featured in the same poster highlighting the emotion 鈥榯rust.鈥?This poster reminds the visitors how politics and authority play with our trust.

Another poster, Affection features an array of emotions. Politicians are also subjects of this poster. Belonging brings out many old movie posters and sneak-peek of movie projects of Germany in various decades.

The exhibition was published by the Remembrance, Responsibility and Future Foundation and the Federal Foundation for the Study of Communist Dictatorship in East Germany.

The display will remain open for all till November 30."
"'Local International' exhibition is the outcome of an international cultural exchange program between Bangladesh and Germany | Courtesy

The cultural program was a joint effort by Goethe-institut Bangladesh, Wei脽ensee School of Art and Design Berlin, and Berlin University of the Arts, in cooperation with BGMEA University of Fashion and Technology

A unique fashion exhibition, titled 鈥淟ocal International,鈥?is going on at Gyantapas Abdur Razzaq Bidyapeeth in Dhanmondi, Dhaka.

The exhibition is the outcome of an international cultural exchange program between Bangladesh and Germany that focuses on sustainability and fair production methods within the textile industry.

The exhibition puts on display exclusive collections by both Bangladeshi and German fashion designers. The fashion show also emphasizes on sustainability and raises awareness on the wide range of options that fashion designers will face in their future careers.

The cultural program was a joint effort by Goethe-institut Bangladesh, Wei脽ensee School of Art and Design Berlin, and Berlin University of the Arts, in cooperation with BGMEA University of Fashion and Technology.

Barkat, one of the participating designers, showcased exclusive outfits made with jute from his clothing line. Other participants of the fashion show demonstrated their ability to recycle used products.

In 2015, 48 fashion designers and fashion students from Berlin and Dhaka were selected to participate in the 鈥淟ocal International鈥?project.

The project has been supported by Goethe-institut Bangladesh from the beginning, and was led by Professor Heike Selmer and Professor Valeska Schmidt-Thomsen.

In her welcoming speech on the opening day, Kirsten Hackenbroch, director of Goethe-institut Bangladesh, said that finally, the exhibition 鈥淟ocal International鈥?is being presented in Dhaka.

Prof Schmidt-Thomsen of Berlin University of the Arts expressed her optimism that the overall fashion scene in both Germany and Bangladesh will be highly benefited from this project.

The exhibition will remain open to all until Sunday, every day from 12 pm to 8 pm.

The Bengal Foundation and Fashion Revolution are the exhibition partners."
"A week-long international fashion design exhibition titled 鈥楲ocal International鈥?is underway at Gyantapas Abdur Razzaq Bidyapeeth gallery, Dhanmondi in the capital. The inauguration ceremony of the exhibition was held on Tuesday evening on the gallery premise.

The exhibition presents the results of the fashion design exchange projects between Bangladesh and Berlin since 2015. This project is initiated by Goethe-institut Bangladesh, Weissensee school of art and design Berlin, Berlin University of the Arts, in cooperation with BGMEA University of Fashion and Technology. The Bengal Foundation and the Fashion Revolution are the exhibition partners.

In her welcoming speech, Dr. Kirsten Hackenbroch, Director Goethe-institut Bangladesh said, 鈥淔inally, the exhibition 鈥楲ocal International鈥?is presented in Dhaka. The five days show offers a space for reflection and for planning new action: on the production and design processes of (local to global) fashion and on transcultural programmes as effective ways to build sustainable co-production and cooperation鈥?

Terming Bangladesh as one of the most important countries in the fashion production, Professor Heike Selmer of the Weissensee school of art and design Berlin, said that the fashion designers nowadays need to know where fashion is produced.

Professor Dr Ayub Nabi Khan, Pro-Vice Chancellor, BUFT, highly praised the initiative to promote sustainability, fair- trade and design methods in this exhibition and heartily thanked Goethe-institut and Bengal Foundation for organising the event. As an appreciation of the exhibition, Professor Khan said, 鈥淭he works displayed in the exhibition by talented designers exhibit few solutions to these issues of existing practices of the fashion business and offer future destiny of fashion designers鈥?role in achieving a healthy and environment-friendly planet.鈥?
Local International is an international cultural exchange programme between Bangladesh and Germany focusing on sustainability and fair production methods within the textile industry.

From the year 2015, 48 fashion designers and fashion students from Berlin and Dhaka have been selected to participate in Local International project. In lectures and specialised workshops, the participants were given an insight into the topics of sustainability, fair-trade and design methods, in order to develop their own creative approaches, concepts, products and collections. The result of these projects has been presented earlier in two exhibitions: local international I and local international II.

The exhibition will remain open to all every day from 12pm to 8pm until tomorrow.

EA"
"It has been six years since the horrific Rana Plaza disaster shook the nation to its core. The tragic incident, regarded as the deadliest garment factory accident in history which claimed over a thousand lives and left many more injured, was indeed a wakeup call for many.

To mark the sixth anniversary of the catastrophic event, a production of monologues through video collage, titled 鈥楾estimony of a Thread鈥?or 鈥楨kti Shutar Jobanbondi鈥? directed by Kamar Ahmad Simon, was screened recently at the auditorium of Goethe-institut Bangladesh. It is produced by Sara Afreen and co-produced by NHK (Japan), KBS (Korea), PTS (Taiwan) and Mediacorp (Singapore). The screening was followed by a discussion session. Director of the institute, Kirsten Hackenbroch graced the event with her presence.

鈥楾estimony of a Thread鈥?sheds light on the zealous efforts of Nazma Akhter, Sommilito Garments Sramik Federation; Rubana Huq, Managing Director, Mohammadi Group; Dilara Begum Jolly, Artist and Performer who arranged a solo art exhibition in memory of the victims of Rana Plaza; Professor M M Akash, Department of Economics, University of Dhaka; and Zohra Akhtar Mili, Survivor and Widower of Rana Plaza Tragedy. Each individual鈥檚 point of view compels one to scrutinize the fact that had we been more cautious, then perhaps we could have avoided the horrific loss of lives, not only in the case of Rana Plaza, but in such similar cases. During the screening, the auditorium full of audience was transfixed, with each passing monologue, giving deeper insight into the matter. The last person featured was Mili, whose words of despair brought tears to many eyes.

In the race of globalisation, human greed often outweighs the risks involved with the 鈥榗heap鈥?manpower who are behind the industrialisation of Bangladesh. 鈥淚 dread the fact that many are labeled as a 鈥榥umber鈥?after any lethal incident. Every individual who falls victim to a fatal accident is a character in their own right. Not a number!鈥?exclaimed Kamar Ahmad Simon. 鈥淭he very idea of assigning a number to a corpse haunted me.鈥?
As a reason, Kamar decided to portray his point of view through 鈥楾estimony of a Thread鈥? It is a very unique undertaking by the creative filmmaker, in the sense that he feels it is incomplete, given the magnitude of the subject matter, and he does not promote it unlike his other projects. However, he attempts to showcase the work every year in April, in consolidation to his beliefs and in memory of the victims. Kamar鈥檚 humble prowess to go great lengths in order to preserve the quintessence surrounding the horrendous incident clearly resonates through 鈥楾estimony of a Thread鈥? lest we forget."
"Film-maker Tasmiah Afrin Mou addressing the viewers, following the screening of her films at Goethe-institut's auditorium on Sunday | Courtesy

The highlight of the screening was the award-winning Bangladeshi short film, 'Kobi Swamir Mrityur Por Amar Jobanbondi,' which translates to, 'The Statement After My Poet Husband鈥檚 Death,' written and directed by Tasmiah. One 11-minute long short film, 'Nayikar Ek Raat,' completed in 2019, translates to 'Heroine鈥檚 one night,' - and a 22-minute documentary film, 'Tokai,' made in 2012, were the other films that were screened

Goethe-institut Bangladesh's film screening and discussion series, ""Through Her Eyes,"" continues to acquaint movie-watchers with women film-makers of the country in their latest instalment, which featured the rising film-maker Tasmiah Afrin Mou, and three of her films. The screening was organized in cooperation with the International Film Initiative of Bangladesh (IFIB).

The highlight of the screening was the award-winning Bangladeshi short film, ""Kobi Swamir Mrityur Por Amar Jobanbondi,"" which translates to, ""The Statement After My Poet Husband鈥檚 Death,"" written and directed by Tasmiah. One 11-minute long short film, ""Nayikar Ek Raat,"" completed in 2019, translates to ""Heroine鈥檚 one night,"" - and a 22-minute documentary film, ""Tokai,"" made in 2012, were the other films that were screened.

""The Statement..."" is a film which depicts the psychological journey of a woman named Rubi who once loved her husband devotedly but the feeling is now long gone. Sitting beside her husband鈥檚 dead body, she does not feel any grief or any other emotion whatsoever. She remembers her life with this man, and discovers that her once beloved husband died within her, long before his actual demise.

In a press release the director notes: ""Though loving relationships are believed to bring happiness to a woman鈥檚 life, often they cause pain and abasement. Still, a simple woman goes far and accepts a lot of disgrace for his love. But, after a point, the feeling of love dies. The much-alive person she once loved becomes dead to her.

""Even the actual death of that person comes as a relief. Despite being brought up in a country that is historically male dominated, an ordinary Bangladeshi woman often tends to take some difficult but vital decisions which come from the lesson of self-esteem her culture has taught her. The family structure in Bangladesh facilitates a mental shelter for the ordinary woman taking any important life decision long after she is matured or married. An ordinary woman could become the symbol of self-esteem, not through practicing any recognized feminist lifestyle, but rather, by living her ordinary stolid life,"" the director added.

""The Statement after My Poet Husband鈥檚 Death"" is her debut short film. Before this she made a handful of documentary films, including the critically-acclaimed ""Tokai,"" which received the award for Best Short Documentary at Guangzhou International Documentary Film Festival, China, in 2014.

The 35-year old actor Tasmiah was born in Dhaka and completed her Honours and Masters degrees from the University of Dhaka, majoring in Political Science. She is also an author and her short story collection, ""Baksha Bondi,"" was published in 2015.

Women have been making films from the outset of film production history. In Bangladesh, we currently see a number of women filmmakers actively creating and working in all genres of filmmaking. However, it remains a challenge for a woman to be a director and continue to create a body of work. Worldwide, relatively few women can carve out that opportunity for themselves.

The ""Through Her Eyes"" film screening and discussion series gives film enthusiasts, students, academics, professionals, funding agencies, broadcasters, rights groups, and journalists, an opportunity to watch films by women film-makers currently working in Bangladesh. Film personalities can interact with them directly at the end of the screening, and more such events are expected in this series."
"As a part of the popular film screening and discussion series, 鈥楾hrough Her Eyes鈥? Goethe-institut Bangladesh, in cooperation with the International Film Initiative of Bangladesh (IFIB), screened films directed by Tasmiah Afrin Mou recently.

The highlight of the event was the screening of the award-winning Bangladeshi short film, Kobi Swamir Mrityur Por Amar Jobanbondi, written and directed by Tasmiah Afrin Mou. The short film, Nayikar Ek Raat (2019) and the documentary film, Tokai, (2012), directed by Mou, were also screened.

Mou is a young filmmaker from Bangladesh. Kobi Swamir Mrityur Por Amar Jobanbondi is her debut short film. Before this, she made a handful of documentary films. One of her documentary films, Tokai, received the Award for Best Short Documentary at Guangzhou International Documentary Film Festival, China, in 2014. Born in Dhaka, Mou studied Political Science at University of Dhaka. Mou is also known as a writer. Her book, Baksha Bondi, was published in 2015."

"As a part of the German-Bangla Film Screening, Goethe-institut Bangladesh will screen Bengali short film 鈥楾he Flying Child鈥?directed by Fuaduzzaman Fuad and German film 鈥楾he Book Thief鈥?(Die B眉cherdiebin) directed by Brian Percival at its auditorium today.

Dhaka University Film Society (DUFS), in cooperation with Goethe-institut, has organised the film show. The film screening is a regular collaboration between DUFS and Goethe-institut held on the last Sunday of every month.

With the run-time of 10 minutes, the short film 鈥楾he Flying Child鈥?is about a group of floating children live in different railway stations of Bangladesh. They have no roots. Some of them don鈥檛 know their identity properly. Who are their parents? Some of them ran away from home due to family crisis. Most of them are aged between 5 and 12 years. They have no food, no bed to sleep. They are always fighting for survival.

While subjected to the horrors of World War II Germany, the film 鈥楾he Book Thief鈥?shows young Liesel finds solace by stealing books and sharing them with others. In the basement of her home, a Jewish refugee is being protected by her adoptive parents.

鈥楾he Book Thief鈥?received Academy Award, Golden Globe and BAFTA nominations for its score. For her performance in the film, Sophie N茅lisse won the Hollywood Film Festival Spotlight Award, the Satellite Newcomer Award, and the Phoenix Film Critics Society Award for Best Performance by a Youth in a Lead or Supporting Role 鈥?Female.

Where: Goethe-institut, House 10, Road 9 (new), Dhanmondi R/A

When: 4pm, 4:15pm, today

BK"
"Many brave souls, both men and women, fought for our mother language Bangla during the 1952 Language Movement. However, the names of women language fighters hardly appear in written history.

With the help of oral history, director Shabnam Ferdousi, made a documentary film titled, Bhashajoyita: The Language Fighter, based on those women. The film was recently screened during the session, Through Her Eyes, an initiative by Goethe-institut Bangladesh and International Film Initiative of Bangladesh (IFIB), which provides a space to watch and discuss films with women filmmakers of Bangladesh.

Bhashajoyita: The Language Fighter can be a treasure for the national archive. In the film, language fighters Roushan Ara Bacchu, Halima Khatun, Sufia Ahmed and Sofia Khan spoke about the times when they were in the streets to protest.

The poster of the film.

The film focused on the important women figures of the Language Movement, including the likes of Nurunnahar Kabir, Syeda Nazibunnesa, Zobeda Rahim Chowdhury, Shah Banu Chowdhury, Manjusree Sen and Rani Bhattacharya, among others.

The names of many women, like Momtaj Begum who was imprisoned for over a year, and the stories of their struggles may have lost importance in written documents. However, pictures from 1951 prove the participation of women language fighters.

The screening of the film ended with a discussion session with the director Shabnam Ferdousi. Another film In Quest of Life, by the same director, was also screened on the day. Through Her Eyes is an ongoing initiative, which takes place on the third Sunday of each month at Goethe-institut Bangladesh."
"As part of the list of events scheduled for Chobi Mela X, a programme titled, 'Pothe Pothe: Travelogues', curated by Sarker Protick and Munem Wasif, was held on February 28 at Goethe-institut Bangladesh. It commenced with a warm greeting by the Festival Director, Shahidul Alam, followed by a welcome speech by the Director of the institute, Kirsten Hackenbroch.

The curators compiled the works of Tanvir Mokammel, Ronny Sen, Oliver McGarvey, Arfun Ahmed, Dhrub Malhotra, Kartik Subramanian, Hadi Uddin, Kanu Gandhi, Max Pam, Sarker Protick and the Nepal Picture Library, into a visual that was projected on a screen. While the video clips generally had their own audio, relevant music and sounds, mostly arranged by Sarker Protick, also accompanied the still photographs that were displayed.

'Pothe Pothe' took the audience in the packed auditorium, into a journey of its own. From Mahatma Gandhi's march to Noakhali to the nomadic landscapes travelled on a Royal Enfield, along with the hippies of Nepal and much more, the rich assortment of depictions were a means of adventure and insight at the same time. The travelogue told the many stories of collective experiences that transcended borders to create new horizons.

The end of the screening was followed by an artist talk by British photographer, Vanessa Winship. She discussed her book, She Dances on Jackson, where she portrays her travels across the United States in search of the American dream."
"Considered as one of the most significant photography events in Asia and the first of a regular biennale, Chobi Mela - International Festival of Photography, is organised by Drik Picture Library Ltd and Pathshala South Asian Media Institute. 21 countries, including Australia, Brazil, Germany, Italy, Nepal, USA and others, are participating this year.

As a part of the tenth installment of Chobi Mela, a discussion session, titled, 'Engaging The Archive: Storytelling and Scholarship' was organised at Goethe-institut Bangladesh recently. Alisha Sett and Samia Khatun were the speakers of the session, which was moderated by photographer and curator Nayantara G Kakshapati.

Alisha Sett is a writer, curator and educator from Mumbai. She is the co-founder and director of the Kashmir Photo Collective and Deputy Course Director of Critical Theory, Aesthetics and Practice at Jnanapravaha Mumbai. Her research on histories of South Asian photography has been supported by an Edmond J Safra Fellowship (Harvard University) and Inlaks Shivdasani Foundation scholarship. Sett received her MA in History of Art from the Courtauld Institute of Art as a part of their special option 'Documentary Reborn: Photography, Film and Video in Global Contemporary Art'; she was a part of the Program for Narrative and Documentary Practice at Tufts University where she received her BA in Political Science and English Literature. In her presentation, she spoke about the Kashmir Photo Collective, a digital archive that aims to create an alternative photographic history of the Kashmir Valley. 鈥淲e invite individuals and families, photo studios and photographers, as well as institutions to contribute their photographs and stories to the archive,鈥?said Sett. Since its inception in 2014, the initiative has archived numerous private collections.

Samia Khatun is a writer, filmmaker and cultural historian. She was born in Dhaka, educated in Sydney and has held research fellowships in Berlin, Dunedin, New York and Melbourne. She is soon to develop a history programme at the University of Liberal Arts, Bangladesh. The central piece of her presentation was her book, Australianama: The South Asian Odyssey. In the book, Khatun weaves together an extraordinary range of powerful South Asian and Aboriginal narratives from across Australia, showing how stories in colonised tongues can transform our understandings of the past and present, and point the way to a more hopeful future. The session shed light on the different ways that archives reveal interesting details about how we view the world. Towards the end, the speakers opened up about their processes and preferences for working with archives and answered a few questions from the audience."
"-Moushumi Bhowmik

During a discussion at Goethe-institut Bangladesh on the fourth day of Chobi Mela X, singer and songwriter Moushumi Bhowmik showed how sounds and videos found their way into photography exhibitions, referring to her archives of songs and sounds.

Bhowmik has been travelling to this part of Bengal, which she refers to as an extension of her own land, for the last 25 years. She has travelled to fragmented areas of Bengal to collect various sounds, part of which was presented during her talk. The installation of the presentation was an amalgamation of the work of Bhowmik and sound recordist Sukanta Majumdar.

Since she was engaged in a process of archiving while travelling, she created a travelling archive. 鈥淎 travelling archive is also about lands that seem to be constantly forming and reforming themselves,鈥?she said. Her presentation began with an image from 1932, captured in Naogaon, Rajshahi. It was taken by Dutch music scholar, Arnold Bake, who was highly inspired by Tagore. Blake went to Santiniketan in 1925 and lived there for four years to complete his PhD. He travelled as he wrote his dissertation, and listened to different kinds of music. He wanted the world to know about the kinds of songs he came across during his travels. This was one of the reasons why he went back and convinced the Berlin-Phonogramm Archiv to give him a phonograph, so that he could document them. Arnold was also told to record the ballads of Rajput, to document the part of India which had not been europeanised. For this reason, Bhowmik believes that through archives, we sometimes create an accurate reference point for the future.

鈥淭he process of producing archives is subjective. There are no scientific methods to it,鈥?added Bhowmik. 鈥淲hen we archive, there is always a purpose that is guided by our intention, politics and where we stand in life.鈥?
She further played songs of the Fakirs and Bauls from Rajshahi. The audience also got a glimpse of the journey Bhowmik has been on to create the archive. On her travels, she spoke to people from different walks of life, including marginalised women. She also traced numerous places, which were mentioned in different documents from the past. 鈥淭he archive that we are creating has its flaws. But my work focuses on people,鈥?mentioned Bhowmik. 鈥淲e are accommodating different voices in the body of the archive.鈥?
'Her Take: Rethinking Masculinity' at Chobi Mela X,2019-03-06 00:00:00+06:00,'Her Take: Rethinking Masculinity' is a seven-part exhibition"

 they try to reframe and challenge the concept of it.

 being non-binary is more of an internal thing. One day

 showcased the work of Maggie Steber

 Ilvy Nijokiktjien and the speaker of the session
"Academic and artist Naeem Mohaiemen, who was nominated last year for the UK's prestigious Turner Prize (the Prize eventually went to Scotland's Charlotte Prodger), is one of the most informed people of our time. Working obsessively on the history of Bangladesh, the artist is sensitive to social changes, as well as the political climate of the world, which is often reflected through his works. Recently at a talk during Chobi Mela X, Naeem Mohaiemen exhibited clips from three of his films titled United Red Army, Two Meetings and a Funeral and Tripoli Cancelled at the Goethe-institut Bangladesh.

A short clip from United Red Army (2011), which was about a plane hijack by the Japanese Red Army in 1977, was shown at the beginning of the session. The now defunct Japanese Red Army were allies with many forces, including the Palestinian cause in the 1970s. The Red Army took up plane hijacking as their form of militant actions. The reason that they were particularly successful at hijacking, as depicted in the film, is because Arab passengers were more likely suspects, as opposed to Japanese tourists, for the security cordon. The plane was hijacked from India and landed in Bangladesh until the peaceful resolution.

The clip shown in the session, was mostly in darkness, and included a conversation between the hijacker and air force negotiator. In the conversation, the part where the hijacker mistakenly asks for alcohol, among many things, provoked much laughter in the audience. The artist went on to talk about the response that the film received from different parts of the world. 鈥淭he laughter here in Dhaka is of a different register. That request means something different when the film is shown elsewhere,鈥?said Mohaiemen.

Another featured film of the session, Two Meetings and a Funeral (2017) was about two meetings - the non- aligned movement meeting in Algiers, Algeria in 1973, and the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation meeting in Lahore, Pakistan in1974. The film was shot in New York, Algeria and Bangladesh. A short excerpt of the film was exhibited that focused on the Bangabandhu International Conference Center, previously known as Bangladesh China Friendship Conference Center, and before that the 鈥淣AM Shammelan Center鈥? It was built for a non-aligned movement meeting in Dhaka, that never took place. Even though NAM did not happen, the name came into common use. A trade fair was going on during the time the film was shot, which creates a crowded intensity on screen.

The film is usually installed in museums and displayed on three separate screens using three projectors. Structural opportunities of video encouraged the artist to go past the usual arrangements. 鈥淲hen we were filming in Algeria, everything we looked at was so vast, suggested that it can only be shown in panorama,鈥?explained Mohaiemen, 鈥淗ence, we decided to utilise the larger span, and use juxtaposition of screens.鈥?He then ended the session, displaying a clip from his fiction film Tripoli Cancelled (2017), about a man who lives in an airport for ten years.

As he showed these clips, he also talked about his philosophy of producing art. He believes that artists should not explain too much of their work. 鈥淔or everything I do in Bangladesh, or anyone else does, we should acknowledge that we are a part of a community. It's important to continuously acknowledge the people with whom our work is in conversation. Nobody makes work alone, it's always in dialogue with many,鈥?added the artist.

Naeem Mohaiemen's projects can be seen during Chobi Mela at Abdur Razzaq Bidyapeeth, House 60, Road 7A, Dhanmondi."
"鈥淭he Earth is closing on us



pushing us through the last passage



and we tear off our limbs to pass through.



The Earth is squeezing us.



I wish we were its wheat



so we could die and live again.



I wish the Earth was our mother



so she'd be kind to us.



I wish we were pictures on the rocks



for our dreams to carry as mirrors.鈥?
The aforementioned, are the first few lines from the poem The Earth is Closing on Us, by Palestinian poet Mahmoud Darwish. The poem is based on the plight of the refugee crisis. According to UNHCR, a refugee is someone who has been forced to flee his or her country because of persecution, war or violence.

The name of the programme titled, 'The Earth is Closing on Us - Rohingya Refugees in Exile' was adopted from the poem and curated by Sarker Protick and Munem Wasif at Goethe-institut Bangladesh during Chobi Mela X. The screening comprised of photographs taken by John Vink in 1992, documenting the Rohingya refugees fleeing to Bangladesh back then, along with the more recent works of Munem Wasif, Saikat Mojumdar, Saiful Huq Omi, Anastasia Taylor-Lind, Syed Asif Mahmud, Moises Saman, Sawangwongse Yawnghwe, Kevin Frayer, Dar Yasin, Walid Saddam Topu and Fran莽ois X Klein.

The programme showcased cheerful moments the refugees are trying to create at the camps, along with the inexorable aftermath of their sufferings. Even though the audience seemed well-aware about the systematic persecution of the Rohingyas, the video clips and photographs showcased on the screen, paired with the carefully composed audio, managed to engage the onlookers with melancholy. So much so that by the end of the session, there were many pairs of eyes glistening around the houseful hall. One of the most gripping photographs displayed was that of Hanida Begum, a Rohingya mother, holding her deceased baby who drowned when their boat capsized during the exodus. Their photos also gained much attention across local and international media.

The screening was followed by an atrist talk by Jan Banning, who showcased and discussed his intriguing work with the audience."
"As a part of the regular film screening and discussion series 鈥楾hrough Her Eyes鈥? Shameem Akhter-directed 鈥楽hilalipi鈥欌€撯€楾he Inscription鈥?(2004) will be screened followed by a Q&A session at the auditorium of Goethe-institut on March 17.

鈥楽hilalipi鈥? 100 minutes in length, is the depiction of the time and events that led to the making of Bangladesh. Within that backdrop the shadow biopic of Selina Parveen, the martyr of 1971 has been made. She personifies the women of her time who determinedly fought the patriarchal hurdles to attain freedom.

Shameem Akhtar is a women and film activist who started her career as a journalist in the early 80s. She made her debut film 鈥楾he Conversation鈥?in 1991 with Tareq Masud. She has three full-length features and 21 documentaries to her name. She is a part time teacher at the Bangladesh Cinema and Television Institute.

Women have been making films from the beginning of film production history. In Bangladesh, we currently see a number of women filmmakers actively creating and working in all genres of filmmaking. 鈥楾hrough Her Eyes鈥?gives film enthusiasts, film students, academics, film professionals, funding agencies, broadcasters, rights groups and journalists a regular opportunity to watch films by women filmmakers currently working in Bangladesh and to interact with them directly at the end of the screening.

Where: Goethe-institut, Dhanmondi

When: 5pm, March 17

EA"
"Actors Sara Zaker, left, and Asaduzzaman Noor in a scene from the film 'Shilalipi' | Courtesy

The film is a biopic of Selina Parvin, a writer and journalist whose body was found amongst the decapitated bodies of intellectuals at Rayer Bazaar, a day after Dhaka claimed victory in the 1971 war

Well known Bangladeshi film-maker Shamim Akhter鈥檚 1971 Liberation War feature film, 鈥淪hilalipi-The Inscription,鈥?will be screened at the capital鈥檚 Goethe-institut at 5pm on Sunday, March 17.

The film is a biopic of Selina Parvin, a writer and journalist whose body was found amongst the decapitated bodies of intellectuals at Rayer Bazaar, a day after Dhaka claimed victory in the 1971 war. It was shot in 2001 and its premiere was arranged at the capital鈥檚 Press Club in 2002.

The event is a part of Goethe-institut Bangladesh鈥檚 鈥淭hrough Her Eyes - A space to watch and discuss films with women filmmakers of Bangladesh,鈥?in collaboration with International Film Initiative of Bangladesh (IFIB). There will be a screening of the 2004 film followed by a Q&A session with its director, Shameem Akhter.

鈥淭hrough Her Eyes鈥? a film screening and discussion space, a monthly film screening program at the auditorium of Goethe-institut Bangladesh, gives film enthusiasts, film students, academics, film professionals, funding agencies, broadcasters, rights groups and journalists, a regular opportunity to watch films by women filmmakers currently working in Bangladesh, and to interact with them directly at the end of the screening.

The event is open to all with a valid photo ID.

Shameem made her 10 minute long non-fiction film debut with 鈥淪hey-The Conversation,鈥?assisted by Tareque Masud in 1993.

The same year, she made another non-fiction short film titled 鈥淭he Eclipse.鈥?Shameem helmed 鈥淜alpurush鈥?in 2010.

鈥淪hilalipi,鈥?starring Sara Zaker, Jishnu Brahmaputra, Jayanto Chattopadhyay, Chanchal Chowdhury, Manash Chowdhury, Samira Haq, and Asaduzzaman Noor in central roles, is her first feature length film.

Her second feature film, 鈥淩ina Brown,鈥?was released 12 years later, in 2016. Both movies are based on the 1971 Liberation War in Bangladesh.



"
"Shamim Akhter, second from right, addresses the audience at the Goethe-institut Bangladesh in Dhaka on Sunday | Dhaka Tribune

The film has not only set standards for upcoming female filmmakers of Bangladesh, but for the whole war filmmaker community of Bangladesh

The 1971 Liberation War is the most significant period of Bangladesh鈥檚 history. The nine-month long bloody war with Pakistan led to the independence of the nation. Bangladesh, like every other nation which has gone through warfare, has made many film鈥檚 to portray the struggle, losses, and achievements of the Liberation War. As it is a small developing nation, the country still has not produced large scale war films like the multi million dollar World War films of Hollywood or other western nations. Bangladeshi film-makers took a different approach and produced micro budget films focusing on certain aspects of its war for independence and sovereignty.

Most of the 1971 Liberation War films of the country had a male centric storyline, where the film directed and written by a male director had a male freedom fighter as its lead cast. The only exception which hit the mainstream was eminent film maker Nasir Uddin Yousuf Bachchu鈥檚 10 National Film Award winning feature film, 鈥淕uerrilla,鈥?which had acclaimed actor Jaya Ahsan in its lead role.

Yet, there is another star studded Liberation film, 鈥淪hilalipi,鈥?directed by renowned screenwriter and Bangladesh鈥檚 first female feature film director, Shamim Akhter, which did not get as much attention at local box offices.

Shot on 16mm film, this was the second feature length film directed by a female film maker of Bangladesh. Her first feature film was another Liberation War film titled 鈥淚tihaas Konna-Daughter of History.鈥?
I recently had the pleasure to watch 鈥淪hilalipi鈥?and meet its director for a Q&A session at the capital鈥檚 Goethe-institut on Sunday (March 17), and absolutely loved it.

The event was a part of Goethe-institut Bangladesh鈥檚 鈥淭hrough Her Eyes - A space to watch and discuss films with women filmmakers of Bangladesh,鈥?in collaboration with International Film Initiative of Bangladesh (IFIB).

The film is a biopic of Selina Parvin, a writer and journalist whose body was found amongst the decapitated bodies of intellectuals at Rayer Bazaar, a day after Dhaka claimed victory in the 1971 war. It was shot in 2001 and its premiere was arranged at the capital鈥檚 Press Club in 2002. After many complications the film hit Bangladesh theatres in 2004.

In the film, Sara Zaker, who plays the lead role of Nasrin (adapted name of Selina Parvin), is a single mother raising a young child in Dhaka in 1971. She is a brilliant young woman who did not get a chance to complete her graduation and earns her livelihood by teaching and working as a copy editor at a newspaper. After her husband, an active communist leader played by Jayanto Chattopadhyay, leaves her when he gets to know that she is pregnant with his child she is given shelter by another middle aged communist activist whom she calls her Mama (uncle), played by renowned actor Aly Zaker, Sara Zaker鈥檚 husband in real life.

Popular actor Chanchal Chowdhury, plays the role of her brother, an active student activist in the 鈥?0s. He is the only family member she has, apart from her son, played by Jishnu Brahmaputra and Manosh Chowdhury, in two separate timelines.

Acclaimed actor and cultural personality Asaduzzaman Noor plays a young artist who works as a designer in the ad department of the same newspaper. Noor and Sara Zaker develop a friendship in the office and later on they start their own periodical named Shilalipi with articles and updates on the war. The local publication catches the attention of local Al-Badr members and she is abducted by the Pakistani military in front of her own seven year old son, played by the director鈥檚 own son, Jishnu Brahmaputra.

In a dual timeline film we see her grown son, played by actor, cultural activist and academician Manosh Chowdhury, who was brought up in an orphanage after the war, search for answers to why his mother had to go through this. 鈥淪hilalipi鈥?starts with an unconventional way, breaking the barriers of fiction, non-fiction and adapted filmography, as Selina Parvin鈥檚 real son, Sumon, comes onto the screen and talks about his mother.

The screenplay of the film is beautifully written. Each of the masterclass actors performed better than each other. The film鈥檚 parallel storyline, its unconventional yet beautiful intro of the true story it is based on, the whole war depicted from a young and independent single mother鈥檚 perspective living in urban Bangladesh back in the 鈥?0s, has not only set standards for upcoming female filmmakers of Bangladesh, but for the whole war filmmaker community of our country. I would personally like to recommend the authorities showcase this beautiful piece of celluloid which portrays how women like Selina (or Nasrin) have sacrificed themselves and actively participated in Bangladesh's liberation war with their intellect.

After the film was screened the film鈥檚 director came onto the stage and answered questions from the audience. Shamim Akther shared what challenges she faced as a female filmmaker who started her career in the 鈥?0s, how she did not have enough funding to shoot this film on 35mm film, and how hard it is to get financing and sponsors for films.

She told Dhaka Tribune鈥檚 Showtime that she wants to keep making films and is currently working on another film which is based on rape victims of the 1971 Liberation War.













Siam Raihan is a film editor and a sub-editor at the Dhaka Tribune鈥檚 Showtime Desk"
"Prof Holger Kleine says at Bengal Institute's public forum

What is good architecture? Definitely not an easy question to answer, but Prof Timmy Aziz and Prof Holger Kleine managed to enlighten an audience in Dhaka in the process of exploring this subject.

Organised by Bengal Institute, the public forum titled 鈥淲hat is Good Architecture?鈥?was held at Goethe-institut on Thursday and went on for two hours. Students, architects and interested individuals quickly filled up the auditorium to listen to the talk, which was based on Prof Kleine's methodologies and framework detailed in his book 鈥淭he Drama of Space鈥?

The event started with an introduction of Prof Kleine and his book by Prof Aziz. Discussions on intentions, definitions of architecture, and utilisation of space ensued after Prof Kleine got on stage.

The latter part of the talk revolved around Dhaka and its architecture. When talking about the Bait Ur Rouf Mosque, Prof Kleine said what he mostly liked about the space is that one does not feel like they are filling it up with their presence.

At the same time, he lamented the lack of public spaces.

He also pointed out the degrading air quality in Dhaka. 鈥淎fter [taking] 20 steps outside our apartment [we realise] the air is unbearable in Dhaka... We have to find solutions...鈥?
Water and its use were an important part of the talk. Prof Kleine elucidated on how Venice developed its architecture by not going against water but by using the geography to its advantage. He also talked about Berlin and its utilisation of water, and finally explained how the waterways in Dhaka can be used for the better.

Later on, Prof Kleine compared some of Dhaka's unique architecture with that of abroad, and then focused on Hatirjheel, which prompted a discussion on the two professors' initiative to build a public structure there.

鈥淪o idyllic, right?鈥?Prof Kleine said while pointing to a picturesque photo of a part of Hatirjheel. 鈥淏ut because of the sound of the Moghbazar flyover, it's terrible. We need a high wall; we need architecture to block off the sound. This wall should be something for public [enjoyment].鈥?
Finally, Prof Kleine showed everyone models/renderings of a curved wall with a waterfall in the middle and bike lanes above. The wall would have space for people to relax and enjoy. Local students, guided by Prof Kleine, planned and designed the structure at a four-day workshop.

After a brief question and answer session, the two professors bid adieu by stating how satisfying their journey was."
"Bijon Imtiaz shares his Berlinale experience during a question and answer (Q&A) session after the screening session of his multiple international award winning debut film 'Matir Projar Deshe - Kingdom of Clay Subjects' at the auditorium of capital's Goethe-institut on Monday | Courtesy

'Artistes will speak their mind and the audience will decide whether they will watch it or not'

Internationally acclaimed Bangladeshi film-maker Bijon Imtiaz recently said that a civilized society can not have a censor board. He made these observations at a question and answer (Q&A) session after the screening session of his multiple international award winning debut film 鈥淢atir Projar Deshe - Kingdom of Clay Subjects鈥?at the auditorium of the Goethe-institut Bangladesh on Monday.

Goethe-institut Bangladesh invited Bijon to talk about 鈥淜ingdom of Clay Subjects鈥?and his recent visit to the renowned Berlinale Co-Production Market with his upcoming feature film 鈥淧aradise,鈥?which is the first to get selected at the major international film market.

During this interactive session with fans, film enthusiasts and young film-makers, a member of the audience told Bijon that he heard that the recently released 鈥淟ive from Dhaka鈥?was heavily censored by the Bangladesh Film Censor Board. Then he was asked how he felt about the local censorship as the co-producer of that film which was one of the most internationally successful films of this country.

Bijon replied: 鈥淚 was trying to avoid this topic but now that you have raised it I must say that I am really against censorship. There is no way a society, which has a censor board can be called civilized. It needs to be removed. As simple as that.鈥?
鈥淎rtistes will speak their mind and the audience will decide whether they will watch it or not,鈥?he added.

He also said: 鈥淵ou can go to a cinema, say that it is a really bad film, you hate it and you can walk out of the theatre. You are entitled to do so. You can also say that you don鈥檛 agree with the message of this film. You are entitled to do so.鈥?
鈥淔reedom of speech doesn鈥檛 mean that you have to agree. It means we can disagree and still sit down at the table, talk and have dinner together. That is why I am really against the censor board and I understand how Saad (Abdullah Mohammad Saad, director of 鈥淟ive from Dhaka鈥? is feeling right now. But because of the online medium era we live in you will eventually see the uncensored version. Some of these websites will eventually be blocked and you can use a VPN (Virtual Private Network) to watch them and they can not block VPNs.""

The interactive session, moderated by veteran film scholar Dr Zakir Hossain Raju, was a great source of knowledge for local filmmakers and enthusiasts.

Bijon gave a hands on crash course to the audience about the international film market scenario with some fresh and exciting experiences of participating at this year鈥檚 Berlinale co-production market, along with producer Arifur Rahman.

Back from Berlin with some fresh and exciting experiences of participating in this year鈥檚 Berlinale co-production market, along with his producer Arifur Rahman, Bijon shared his unique experiences with local filmmakers and enthusiasts.

Bijon participated with Rahman at this year鈥檚 Berlinale co-production market with their next feature project 鈥楶aradise鈥? the first such venture from Bangladesh to be on this eminent platform. This was indeed, a great chance for filmmakers and enthusiasts to listen to all the wonderful experiences of the Berlinale co-production market.

Bijon is an award-winning writer, director, producer of fiction and documentary. After the international success of his written, directed feature ""Kingdom of Clay Subjects"" and produced feature ""Live from Dhaka"", his current project ""Paradise"" has been an official selection at the Berlinale co-production market 2019.

Before the session began, Bijon was welcome on stage by Dr Kirsten Hackenbroch, director of Goethe-institut Bangladesh who said: 鈥淚n this year鈥檚 Berlinale programs, four film professionals from Bangladesh participated - a great achievement. What is crucial now is to share these experiences with the community, in order to encourage young independent filmmakers to start their own journeys. Each new independent film from Bangladesh will add to a more nuanced and diverse image of the country and its society.鈥?
Sharing these experiences Bijon also said: 鈥淚 feel, in this long journey, the moments of failure showed us the path to move forward. The disappointments of rejections are temporal but the lessons learnt from those experiences stay with you every step of the way.鈥?


"
"Matir Projar Deshe (Kingdom of Clay Subjects), directed by award-winning fiction and documentary writer, director and producer, Bijon, and produced by Arifur Rahman, was recently screened at Goethe-institut, Bangladesh.

Bijon, along with Arifur Rahman, participated in this year's Berlinale Co-Production Market with their feature project Paradise. The 16th Berlinale Co-Production Market took place during the 69th Berlin International Film Festival in Germany. After receiving international recognition, the team is now set to share their experiences and showcase their work in Bangladesh.

Matir Projar Deshe began with a beautiful story of friendship between a ten-year old boy Jamal and his playmate Lokkhi. As the story moved forward, Lokkhi was forcefully married off. On her wedding day, Lokkhi, a child bride, tried to escape on her way to her in-laws. Lokkhi running across the paddy field, wearing a red saree, was one of the most visually striking scenes in the film. The director, during the concluding Q&A session, mentioned that this particular scene was inspired by his grandmother who similarly tried to run away on her wedding day. Instead of displaying the idealised resistant side of society, the film mostly showcased the real rural scenarios in Bangladesh.

In the real world, society consists of all kinds of people. Keeping with that notion, the film featured characters that represented humanity in its truest essence. When Jamal's mother, Fatema's identity of being a former sex-worker was revealed and the entire village wanted to punish her, an Imam, came forward to help her. 鈥淥ur hearts will be judged in the afterlife, not our bodies,鈥?was the concluding line in the film by the Imam, which was refreshing to see."
"Goethe-institut Bangladesh鈥攊n partnership with BSA to organize 鈥淎n Evening of Contemporary Dance鈥?on Thursday | Courtesy

These eleven talented Bangladeshi choreographers, accompanied by other dancers, will bring performances on stage that they have developed over the last few months under the mentorship of B眉nger and Zahir

Goethe-institut Bangladesh鈥攊n partnership with Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy鈥攊s organizing 鈥淎n Evening of Contemporary Dance鈥?on Thursday evening.

Gates to the event鈥攁t the National Theatre Hall of Bangladesh, Shilpakala Academy, Dhaka鈥攚ill open at 4:45 pm.

The event, under the 鈥淵oung Choreographers鈥?Platform 2019,鈥?will bring some of the outstanding choreographies of contemporary dance, presented last year during the Contemporary Dance Festival 2018, back to the stage.

The event will feature choreographers: Mehraj Haque Tushar, Parvin Sultana Kolly, Md. Ariful Islam Arnab, Moumita Roy Joya, Anandita Khan, Tahnun Ahmedy, Sudeshna Swayamprabha, Md. Farhad Ahmed, Bristi Bepari, Md. Eashin Arafat and Snata Shahrin. Tomas B眉nger is the artistic director of the event while Fiaz Zahir is its technical director.

These eleven talented Bangladeshi choreographers, accompanied by other dancers, will bring performances on stage that they have developed over the last few months under the mentorship of B眉nger and Zahir.

This event continues the Young Choreographers鈥?Platform project initiated by Goethe-institut Bangladesh back in 2016, in cooperation with the Shilpakala Academy Bangladesh.

It aims to provide a stage for talented young Bangladeshi contemporary dance choreographers, and dancers, to transmit their thoughts of present-day Bangladesh through contemporary dance forms and styles."
"An evening of contemporary dance will be held today at the National Theatre Hall of Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy in Segun Bagicha of the capital.

In light of the huge response from the local dance scene and audience alike, Goethe-institut Bangladesh, in partnership with the Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy, invites to this event under the 鈥榊oung Choreographers鈥?Platform 2019鈥? The evening brings back on stage some of the outstanding choreographies of contemporary dance, presented last year during the 鈥楥ontemporary Dance Festival 2018鈥?
The artistic director of this event is Tomas B眉nger while the technical director is Fiaz Zahir. The choreographers are Mehraj Haque Tushar, Parvin Sultana Kolly, Md. Ariful Islam Arnab, Moumita Roy Joya, Anandita Khan, Tahnun Ahmedy, Sudeshna Swayamprabha, Md. Farhad Ahmed, Bristi Bepari, Md. Eashin Arafat and Snata Shahrin.

This event is the continuation of the Young Choreographers鈥?Platform project initiated by Goethe-institut Bangladesh in 2016, in cooperation with the Shilpakala Academy Bangladesh.

Eleven talented Bangladeshi choreographers, accompanied by other dancers will bring performances on stage that they have developed over the last months under the mentorship of the Bremen based artistic director of the Young Choreographers鈥?Platform, noted German choreographer and dancer Tomas B眉nger.

To enjoy the event, interested audience may register at https://www.goethe.de/ins/bd/en/ueb/onr.html or, collect complementary Entry Pass from the reception desk of Goethe-institut Bangladesh. The gate to the venue opens at 4:45 pm.

Where: BSA, Segun Bagicha

When: 5:30pm, today

EA"
"Goethe-institut Bangladesh, in association with Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy, recently organised an evening of contemporary dance, under the Young Choreographers' Platform 2019. This platform is an opportunity for young contemporary dancers of Bangladesh to stage their choreographies, addressing various social issues.

A total number of eleven enthralling performances by eleven choreographers left the audience in awe. The choreographers were Mehraj Haque Tushar, Parvin Sultana Kolly, Ariful Islam Arnab, Anandita Khan, Tahnun Ahmedy, Sudeshna Swayamprabha, Farhad Ahmed, Bristi Bepari, Eashin Arafat, Snata Shahrin and Moumita Roy Jaya.

Photo: Monon Muntaka

Drug abuse, sexual harassment and gender discrimination, amongst a number of other pressing societal issues were reflected through these performances. The dialogues and remarks heard in everyday life were incorporated with music, making the performances relatable. A fusion of classical dance forms with contemporary moves served as a refreshing element on stage.

While each dancer was unique in their presentation and story, few of them stood out in terms of their expression, storytelling and dancing prowess. Dancer Ariful Islam Arnab and Eashin Arafat made the crowd whistle and applaud, whereas Sudeshna Swayamprabha's performance seemed effortless flowing with her moves. The audience also appreciated Mehraj Haque Tushar's striking Kathak moves in his piece. Besides, Snata Shahrin and Tahnun Ahmedy's performances were also quite impressive.

The artistic director and technical director for the programme were Tomas B眉nger and Fiaz Zahir respectively."
"Performers at 'An Evening of Contemporary Dance' at the National Theatre Hall of Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy, Dhaka on Thursday evening | Courtesy

This event is the continuation of the Young Choreographers鈥?Platform project initiated by Goethe-institut Bangladesh in 2016, in cooperation with the Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy

An Evening of Contemporary Dance was held on Thursday evening at the National Theatre Hall, Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy. With ten group and one solo performance, Goethe-institut Bangladesh, in partnership with the Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy organized the event under the Young Choreographers鈥?Platform 2019.鈥?
In her opening speech, Dr. Kirsten Hackenbroch, Director, Goethe-institut Bangladesh said: 鈥淎 group of young creative minds is dedicated to contemporary dance in Bangladesh. As you will see tonight, the body languages they developed are both inherently Bangladeshi and transcultural. The themes brought to the stage speak of diversity and of the freedom to express what one today bears witness to. Whether you are here as art lovers, cultural activists, media professionals or business folk, we hope this evening will inspire you to further support contemporary dance in Bangladesh, to invite the choreographers into productions and to make accessible international stages for talents from Bangladesh.鈥?
Inaugurating the event, Mr. Liaquat Ali Lucky, Director General of the Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy, highly praised the initiative to promote the contemporary dance scene in Bangladesh and heartily thanked Goethe-institut for organizing the event. Quoting the young choreographers as the 鈥渁sset of the nation鈥? he asserted to continue supporting the young choreographers in the days to come.鈥?
It was quite evident that the young choreographers have transformed their ideas and thoughts into choreographies through various workshops held under the guidance of Tomas B眉nger, the German dancer and dance choreographer from the Tanz Kollektiv Bremen.

The eleven choreographers were Mehraj Haque Tushar, Parvin Sultana Kolly, Md. Ariful Islam Arnab, Anandita Khan, Tahnun Ahmedy, Sudeshna Swayamprabha, Md. Farhad Ahmed, Bristi Bepari, Md. Eashin Arafat, Snata Shahrin and Moumita Roy Joya.

This event is the continuation of the Young Choreographers鈥?Platform project initiated by Goethe-institut Bangladesh in 2016, in cooperation with the Shilpakala Academy Bangladesh, aiming to provide a stage to the talented Bangladeshi young contemporary dance choreographers and dancers."
"Official poster of the event | Courtesy

The event is a part of Goethe-institut Bangladesh鈥檚 'Through Her Eyes - A Space to Watch and Discuss Films with Women Filmmakers of Bangladesh,' in collaboration with International Film Initiative of Bangladesh

Goethe-institut Bangladesh will screen Bangladeshi film-maker Humaira Bilkis鈥?documentary 鈥淏agania - Garden of Memories鈥?at their auditorium in the capital鈥檚 Dhanmondi, on Thursday.

The event is a part of Goethe-institut Bangladesh鈥檚 鈥淭hrough Her Eyes - A Space to Watch and Discuss Films with Women Filmmakers of Bangladesh,鈥?in collaboration with International Film Initiative of Bangladesh. There will be a screening of the 2018 documentary film, followed by a Q&A session with its director, Humaira Bilkis.

The 66-minute-long documentary is her debut film; it is based on her long-term relationship with the migrated tea plantation workers of North-East Bangladesh.

Currently, she is working on her new documentary 鈥淏ilkis and Bilkis,鈥?based on her relationship with her mother."
"Dhaka-based documentary filmmaker Humaira Bilkis鈥檚 creative documentary film titled 鈥楪arden of Memories鈥?will be screened tomorrow at 5pm at Goethe-institut in the capital鈥檚 Dhanmondi area.

Goethe-institut Bangladesh, in collaboration with International Film Initiative of Bangladesh, is organising the film screening and discussion space as a part of the monthly film screening programme 鈥楾hrough Her Eyes鈥?

The initiative gives film enthusiasts, film students, academics, film professionals, funding agencies, broadcasters, rights groups and journalists a regular opportunity to watch films by women filmmakers currently working in Bangladesh and to interact with them directly at the end of the screening.

The story of 鈥楪arden of Memories鈥?is about a tea community鈥檚 mundane life where old chieftain Padmoluv awaits his death and often reminisces the past controlled by colonial masters. Young worker Sojoy, feels trapped, but continues the grind. However, School drop-out Chandan wants to elude the exploitation. Every plant in the garden is a mute witness to the unsaid stories of their lives. In death, struggle and escape, these characters become the archetype of entrapped tea garden worker in Bangladesh.

The screening is free of cost and open to all.

Where: House 10, Road 9 (new), Dhanmondi R/A

When: 5pm, tomorrow

BK"
"Documentary film-maker Humaira Bilkis addressing the people, who came to watch her film 'Bagania: Garden of Memories' at Goethe-institut Bangladesh auditorium on Thursday | Courtesy

This was the fourth edition of the popular film screening and discussion series 'Through Her Eyes.' The series provides a space in which to watch and discuss films with women filmmakers of Bangladesh, and is organized by Goethe-institut, in cooperation with the International Film Initiative of Bangladesh (IFIB)

A screening of the film titled 鈥淏agania: Garden of Memories鈥?was held on Thursday evening, followed by a lively question-answer session at Goethe-institut Bangladesh鈥檚 auditorium.

In a brief introductory note, Director of Goethe-institut Bangladesh, Dr Kirsten Hackenbroch, welcomed the audience and introduced the film鈥檚 director, Humaira Bilkis.

This was the fourth edition of the popular film screening and discussion series 鈥淭hrough Her Eyes.鈥?The series provides a space in which to watch and discuss films with women filmmakers of Bangladesh, and is organized by Goethe-institut, in cooperation with the International Film Initiative of Bangladesh (IFIB).

鈥淕arden of Memories鈥?is the story about a tea community鈥檚 mundane life, where the old chieftain, Padmoluv, awaits his death and remembers his past, controlled by colonial masters. Young worker Sojoy feels trapped but continues with the grind; meanwhile, school dropout Chandan wants to elude exploitation.

Every plant in the garden is a mute witness to the unsaid stories of their lives. In death, struggle, and escape, these characters become archetypes of the entrapped tea garden worker in Bangladesh.

The film鈥檚 director, Humaira Bilkis, is a documentary filmmaker based in Dhaka. She was trained in creative documentary filmmaking at Sri Aurobindo Center for Arts and Communication, Delhi. Her student films have been screened internationally.

Bilkis recently completed 鈥淕arden of Memories鈥?and the film is based on her long-term relationship with the migrated tea plantation workers of north-east Bangladesh. Currently, Bilkis is working on her documentary ""Bilkis and Bilkis,鈥?based on her relationship with her mother in the changing context of Bangladeshi society.

鈥淭hrough Her Eyes鈥?gives film enthusiasts, film students, academics, film professionals, funding agencies, broadcasters, rights groups, and journalists a regular opportunity to watch films by women filmmakers currently working in Bangladesh; and to interact with them directly at the end of the screening."
"Marking the sixth anniversary of Rana Plaza tragedy (24 April, 2013), a special screening of young filmmaker Kamar Ahmad Simon鈥檚 documentary film titled 鈥楾estimony of a Thread鈥?will take place tomorrow at 6pm at Goethe-institut auditorium in the capital鈥檚 Dhanmondi area.

Goethe-institut Bangladesh is organising the film screening in the month of April every year, after its making so far, after the tragedy.

In a globalising world, seeking more and more cheaper labour every day, Bangladesh became one of the leading producers in the world clothing industry. In only four decades, it became a 25 Billion US$ export industry, directly engaging 4 million workers, mostly women鈥?and now targeting to double it by 2021 with 50 Billion US$ export! 鈥楾estimony of a Thread鈥?explores the connecting worlds of hope and despair around this industry lately marked for man-made catastrophes like Savar Building Tragedy (2013), considered as the deadliest garment-factory accident in history and deadliest accidental structural failure in modern human history.

Following the screening, the Q&A session with the director will also be held which will be moderated by renowned writer Sumon Rahman.

The screening is free of cost and open to all.

Where: House 10, Road 9 (new), Dhanmondi R/A

When: 6pm, tomorrow

EA"
"Dhaka, Apr 24 (UNB) - The inauguration ceremony of an international fashion design exhibition titled 鈥楲ocal International鈥?was held on Tuesday, 23 April 2019 evening at the Gyantapas Abdur Razzaq Bidyapeeth, Dhanmondi premise.

The exhibition presenting the results of the Fashion Design exchange projects between Bangladesh and Berlin since 2015. This project is initiated by Goethe-institut Bangladesh, Weissensee School of art and design, Berlin, Berlin University of the Arts- in cooperation with BGMEA University of Fashion and Technology.

In her welcoming speech, Dr. Kirsten Hackenbroch, Director, Goethe-institut Bangladesh expressed her happiness about the exhibition 鈥楲ocal International鈥?is presented in Dhaka. The five-day show offers a space for reflection and for planning new action: on the production and design processes of (local to global) fashion and on transcultural programs as effective ways to build sustainable co-production and cooperation.

Terming Bangladesh as one of the most important countries in the fashion production, Prof Heike Selmer of the Weissensee School of art and design berlin said that the fashion designers need to know where fashion is produced.

Prof Valeska Schmidt-Thomsen, Berlin University of the Arts has expressed her optimism that the overall fashion scene from both Germany and Bangladesh will be highly benefited from this project.

BUFT鈥檚 Pro Vice-Chancellor Prof Dr Ayub Nabi Khan highly praised the initiative to promote sustainability, fair- trade and design methods in this exhibition and heartily thanked Goethe-institut and Bengal Foundation for organizing the event. As an appreciation of the exhibition, Prof. Khan said, 鈥淭he works displayed in the exhibition by talented designers exhibit few solutions to these issues of existing practices of fashion business and offer future destiny of fashion designers role in achieving a healthy and environmental friendly planet.鈥?
Inaugurating the event, Michael Schultheiss, Deputy Head of Mission, German Embassy recalled his memories for seeing parts of the 鈥淟ocal International鈥?exhibition in Weissensee (Berlin) in April 2016, he congratulated all the organizers of this exhibition for taking up such an issue, which is extremely important and very vital for the cooperation between Bangladesh and Germany.

LOCAL INTERNATIONAL is an international cultural exchange program between Bangladesh and Germany focusing on sustainability and fair production methods within the textile industry. From the year 2015, 48 fashion designers and fashion students from Berlin and Dhaka have been selected to participate in LOCAL INTERNATIONAL project. In lectures and specialized workshops, the participants were given an insight into the topics of sustainability, fair-trade and design methods, in order to develop their own creative approaches, concepts, products and collections. The result of these projects has been presented earlier in two exhibitions: Local International I and Local International II.

The project partners are Goethe-institut Bangladesh, Weissensee Kunsthochschule Berlin and Universit盲t der K眉nste Berlin, in cooperation with BGMEA University of Fashion & Technology (BUFT). The Bengal Foundation and the Fashion Revolution are the exhibition partners.

This exceptional exhibition will remain open to all until Sunday, April 28, 2019, every day from 12 pm to 8 pm."
"On April 18-19, 2019, Department of English and Humanities of University of Liberal Arts Bangladesh (ULAB) hosted the fifth instalment of ""Inter-University Student Conference and Cultural Competition"" at their permanent campus in Mohammadpur, Dhaka.

This year's theme, ""Romantic Miraculous Year"", celebrated the 200th year of ""Spring Odes"" by British poet John Keats, ""Ode to the West Wind"" by P.B. Shelley and the first canto of ""Don Juan"" by Lord Byron. Students from 15 universities took part in the event by conducting extensive research on the given theme to present their ideas before an independent panel of judges.

The conference was divided into two parts: academic session and cultural competition. The first day of the event welcomed 29 students to present their academic papers to a panel of judges and audience members. The contestants were judged by Dr. Chidananda Bhattacharya, Professor and Head of Department of English, Rabindra Bharati University; and Prof.Abdus Selim, Chairperson of Department of Language-Literature, Central Women's University.

The winner of this section was Shamael Mortuza from ULAB for her paper titled ""The Fault in Coleridge's Stars: A Contrapuntal Reading,"" while the runner-up was Mairuna Farhin from BRAC University for her paper ""The Darkling: A Depiction of the Byronic Hero as an Anti-Villain.""

The second day of the event included the cultural competition, where students from five different universities presented their interpretations of Romanticism and Gothicism through poetry, acting, and other methods of theatrics. The jury for this part of the competition included Dr. Chidananda Bhattacharya; Dr. Kirsten Hackenbroch, Director, Goethe-institut Bangladesh; and Ziaul Karim, Head of Brand and Communication, Eastern Bank Ltd.

Abdul Munim Khan Chowdhury, Shahneela Tazrin, Sheikh Tasmia Mirnmoi, Tasnim Hasan and Vincent Dip Gomez from ULAB took home the winning title for their performance titled ""A Failed Student at Cambridge"" based on the life of the Romantic poet S.T. Coleridge. Team from University of Asia Pacific (UAP) was announced the runner-up of the competition for their portrayal of ""La Belle Dame sans Merci""鈥?a drama narrative based on John Keats' poem of the same name.

The closing ceremony included Prof. Jahirul Haque,VC, ULAB; Prof. Imran Rahman, Special Adviser to the ULAB Board of Trustees. The vote of thanks was given by Prof. Shamsad Mortuza, Pro-VC, and Head of Department of English and Humanities, ULAB.

When asked about the purpose of the event, Conference Coordinator Sohana Manzoor PhD said, ""Through this competition we want to create a platform for young scholars. This year we focused on exploring literature but throughout the years we've tried to focus on language and have open discussions on various topics.""

The winner of the academic session received cash prize of BDT 10,000, while the runner-up received BDT 8,000. The cultural competition winner received a prize of BDT 15,000 and the runner-up team received BDT 10,000. All the winning participants and runner-ups were given crests, medals and certificates for their work."
"The German theatre group Die Mimosen recently performed Josephine and the Brothers of the Wind for the German language learners of Schools: Partners for the Future (PASCH) initiative of Goethe-institut Bangladesh. Under the PASCH initiative, Goethe-institut supports five partner schools in Bangladesh in offering German language classes. It was started in Bangladesh by the Goethe-institut with a programme to train teachers in both the necessary language skills as well as teaching skills for interactive modern language teaching. 120 students of five PASCH schools enjoyed and discussed the fairytale about climate change at the Goethe-institut's auditorium.

The story is about Josephine, played by actor Stephanie Siebers, who nurtures flowers in her garden until suddenly the rains stop. None of those she approaches 鈥?scientists, politicians and other experts, all played by actor Kai Meister 鈥?are able to help her, and thus, she ventures on a journey to find water by herself. In the mountains, she meets with fire and rain. However, they cannot help her unless she finds their brother, wind. Josephine continues her journey, until she can rescue wind from his imprisonment, set-up by a profit-oriented water vendor.

Goethe-institut Bangladesh's director, Dr Kirsten Hackenbroch expressed how the interaction between art, science and education is a great means for leading discussions about our current global challenges.

Founded in 1988, Die Mimosen has developed and executed more than 20 theatrical productions and projects. Currently they offer 11 plays for children aged three or over. For every story, there is a version that is specially designed for elementary schools. All pieces are also designed as a total experience for families, offering a fun mix of music, comedy and sophistication for all ages.

Since 2007, the group has been associated with a broad range of socially relevant projects and workshops for children, adolescents and adults. Josephine and the Brothers of the Wind is once such example, coupled with the project Children Can Climate, with whom they travel internationally."
"Intertwining Beethoven and Indian classical music

A unique combination of Beethoven and Indian culture, through instruments, enthralled the audience present at Goethe-institut recently. The Cosmos Project, featuring musicians Shani Diluka on the piano, Sahana Banerjee on the sitar, and Prabhu Edouard on the tabla, explored the spiritual relationship between Beethoven, a German composer and pianist, and India, through music 鈥?something that has seldom been explored in a concert or recording.

This was the first time the three of them, who are accomplished musicians in their respective fields, performed together and made it a premiere of The Cosmos Project. The pieces performed in the evening were 鈥?Beethoven, Moonlight Sonata op.27, Appassionata Sonata op.57. A selection of Indian ragas was also performed in the evening.

Beethoven could not hear his own music for most of his life and deeply suffered because of it. Hence, he was looking for a spiritual connection, and often wrote about things that inspired him in his notebook. One of the texts was the Upanishaad, a translation of the mystical Indian texts published in Germany in 1816. The Cosmos Project is an amalgamation of the West and the East that tends to explore this relationship between Beethoven and Indian classical music.

鈥淲e hope to pay tribute to peace and tolerance through music,鈥?said Shani Diluka. 鈥淓very culture has beauty in it and it is important to be spiritual to be able to see the beauty, which is possible with music.鈥?
'Oh My Sweet Land' staged at Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy,2018-11-14 00:00:00+06:00,""I used to cringe thinking about Syria. Now I cringe because of Ashraf"

 portrayed the wretched situation of the Syrian lands because of the ongoing war in a one-hour act

 to destroying human bodies in bombings of the war. The scene of raw flesh kept inside the fridge with the sounds of sizzling oil



 showed how the viciousness of war spreads beyond borders and affects people all over the world. Jaber
"A housefull audience observed a wonderful performance by 12 talented young choreographers of the country during the Contemporary Dance Festival 2018 at Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy (BSA) on November 27 and 28. The festival was jointly organised by Goethe-institut Bangladesh and BSA.

The event resulted as a continuation of the Young Choreographers' Platform project initiated by Goethe-institut Bangladesh aiming to provide a stage to the talented Bangladeshi young contemporary dance choreographers and dancers to transmit their thoughts of present-day Bangladesh through contemporary dance forms and styles. After a monthlong workshop under the mentorship of Tomas B眉nger, the crew put on an outstanding show at the festival.

鈥淐ontemporary means the everyday experience we go through. The young dancers will express their experience and thoughts through dance,鈥?said Goethe-institute Director Kirsten Hackenbroch.

Subjects such as trust, rape, struggling identity, freedom, male abuse, bonding of siblings were displayed through the beautiful dances at the event.

鈥淚 tried to develop contemporary dance forms in Bangladesh based on the folk and classical form of dance in the country. We just tried to give wings to the roots鈥? said Tomas B眉nger, Artistic Director of the Young Choreographer's Platform.

The participating choreographers of the festival were, Mehraj Haque Tushar, Parvin Sultana Kolly, Ariful Islam Arnab, Moumita Roy Joya, Anandita Khan, Tahnun Ahmedy, Sudeshna Swayamprabha, Md Farhad Ahmed, Bristi Bepari, Md Eashin Arafat and Snata Shahrin."
"Poll

Today's Question 禄

State minister for power Nasrul Hamid yesterday said everyone to have access to electricity by June. Do you think the feat achievable by the timeframe?"
"Two choreographers from two different backgrounds tried to be in the 'skin of the other' through a dance performance organised by Goethe-institut Bangladesh, in collaboration with Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy (BSA). German-based Togolese choreographer Kossi Sebastien Aholou-Wokawui and German choreographer and dancer Tomas B眉nger staged a part of Goethe-institut's ongoing project 'Young Choreographers' Platform 2018' at the Experimental Hall of BSA

The performance titled, In The Skin Of The Other, started with the dancers stripping their clothes off. They were comfortable in their own skins and let each other explore it as they were dancing. The momentum of the contemporary dance performance kept changing, from edgy to mellow, projecting many emotions at once. In a world full of xenophobia, the dancers believe that a performance as such will teach us to be more kind towards others.

It was choreographed by Kossi Sebastien Aholou-Wokawui and this was his first time in Bangladesh. The choreographer, who was born in Togo and now lives in Germany, wanted to reveal the answer to the question -""How close can I come to a different person?"" In The Skin Of The Other was his attempt to explore the culture and lifestyle of another person through music and dance with Tomas B眉nger."
"Goethe-institut Bangladesh, in cooperation with Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy (BSA), is organising a Jazz music concert by German band Tubes & Wires tomorrow evening at the Experimental Theatre Hall of Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy in the capital.

Niels Klein鈥檚 quartet Tubes & Wires, currently on a jazz tour in South Asia, present a unique instrumental line-up based on electrified clarinets and analogue synthesizers to create a strangely diffused analogue-electric sound.

As a quartet band who play forceful rock music in the attitude of jazz musicians through the implementation of their instrumental techniques, their鈥檚 is a version of indie-jazz-rock music that transcends stylistic borders.

Niels Klein鈥檚 quartet Tubes & Wires is not your everyday line-up. With Lars Duppler on e-piano and synthesizers, Hanno Busch on guitar and bass, Ralf Gessler on drums, and the bandleader on various clarinets, Klein presents forceful rock music that is played with the attitude of Jazz musicians when it comes to instrumental technique. Saxophonist, clarinettist and composer Klein named his band and new CD somewhat jokingly Tubes & Wires. 鈥楾ubes鈥?stands for the various clarinets that Klein plays and 鈥榃ires鈥?represents the many electronic, analogue and digital devices that connect with cables and drive his 鈥榚ffect clarinets鈥?

Due to limited seating, interested audience are requested to register at the following link: https://www.goethe.de/ins/bd/en/ueb/onr.html or fb.com/Goethe-institut.bangladesh.

Besides, the complementary entry pass can be collected from the reception desk of Goethe-institut Bangladesh.

Where: BSA, Segun Bagicha

When: 7pm, tomorrow

BK"
"Goethe-institut Bangladesh and its five partner schools, Oxford International School, European Standard School, South Point School and College, Maple leaf International School and Chittagong Mastermind International School, celebrated 10 years of Schools: Partner for the Future (PASCH) initiative with a concert of German-Swiss reggae and dancehall band, Raggabund. The initiative was launched in February 2008 by Germany's Federal Foreign Office. The Goethe-institut supports around 600 PASCH schools in the national education systems of over 100 countries. The initiative is designed to develop and sustain young people's interest in and enthusiasm for modern-day Germany, German society and the German language.

The four-member band rocked the audience at the National Theater Hall, Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy. For over a decade, they have been inspiring their fans with a mix of offbeat, dancehall, cumbia muffin and niceness. The band shows a beautiful combination of their music with everyday topics, political messages and especially a positive approach to life in their songs.

Inaugurating the event, Dr Kirsten Hackenbroch, Director of the Goethe-institut Bangladesh, said: 鈥淥ver the past 10 years, German as a foreign language became increasingly popular in Bangladesh. The PASCH partner schools, with their commitment to train teachers and hold interactive foreign language classes, are setting a crucial basis for this.鈥?For the future, the team looks forward to engaging with the alumni, to intensify their global networking, and to support those who are eager to conduct higher studies in Germany. He also thanked all who made the PASCH network in the last years a vibrant space for intercultural exchange.

The Deputy Head of Mission of the German Embassy, Michael Schulthei脽, underlined that learning another language opens new perspectives and allows insights into another culture and way of thinking. By learning German the students in Bangladesh not only improve their language skills, but also become ambassadors for the close bilateral relations between Germany and Bangladesh.

During the event, four students were announced as winners of a video competition producing music videos for songs of Raggabund. The first price, participation in a PASCH Youth Camp in Sri Lanka, went to Samiul Gani Daihan and Mehedi Khan Mojish (Oxford International School), the second prize went to Shohaib Hossain and Sakiyun Noor (South Point School and College)."
"Goethe-institut Bangladesh, in partnership with Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy, invites promising young dancers and choreographers to participate in a call for applications for the upcoming 鈥榊oung Choreographers鈥?Platform 2018鈥?to be held from October 20 to November 30 this year.

The platform will provide a stage to promising young dancers and choreographers to express themselves, their themes, visions and dreams by contemporary dance movements. In an initial workshop in late October, choreographers will confirm their teams of dancers and have a chance to attend screenings of contemporary dance performances at Goethe-institut.

Throughout the month of November, the choreographies will then be developed in close mentorship with the German dancer and choreographer Tomas B眉nger of TanzKollektivBremen.

Selected choreographers together with their dancers are expected to participate in the two day workshop at Goethe-institut, the full month of November for the rehearsal times assigned as well as for all stage performances. Selected choreographers will receive necessary support from Goethe-institut Bangladesh in this regard.

All dancers and choreographers with previous experience in contemporary dance and choreographies are eligible to apply. Applicants shall wish to express their own feelings and their own themes by choosing a suitable dance language. While this may be influenced both by classical as well as contemporary movements, important is the process of designing the performance based on the artist鈥檚 observations.

Deadline for applications has been set on October 6.

The other necessary information to apply can be found on Goethe-institut Facebook page.

HM"
"There's a lot of talk going on these days about the state of this country and the lives we are living. Speeches from podiums addressed to the masses; late night talk show debates -- all heated and impassioned. Yet, it so often seems to be the old who speak out. Where are the voices of the youth, and what do we have to say about the world we find ourselves in?

As promised, the Urban Youth Festival II commenced from the 24th of October, and continued throughout the rest of the week. Despite the political unrest leaving the city at a standstill in most cases, Goethe-institut buzzed with enthusiasm and passion as the workshops and exhibitions went on according to schedule. There were talks, there was poetry, and there was a whole lot of positive energy.

The inaugural session took place at 6:30PM on the 24th of October. An opening speech by Dr. Ferdinand von Weyhe, Charge D' Affairs of the German Embassy in Dhaka, was followed by a few words from Judith Mirschberger, the director of Goethe-institut. The keynote speaker, stand-up comedian Naveed Mahbub, kicked off the show with words of encouragement, and humour, of course. The evening ended with a powerful mime skit performed by Dhaka university students on the issue of student politics.

In the following week, the festival moved forward with the following events:

A Tolerance Workshop

For those of you who have witnessed or heard about 鈥淰agina Monologues鈥?that took place earlier this year, Tasaffy Hossain and Trimita Chakma continue to advocate human rights, equality and diversity through yet another thought provoking workshop on tolerance. 鈥淭olerance doesn't necessarily require one to agree with my ideology. I feel as though a general acceptance of the fact that my or anyone else's opinion exists contradictory to your own, is substantial progress,鈥?explained Tasaffy Hossain on being asked about the extent of tolerance that was being discussed in the said workshop. Through interactive activities and panelled discussions, the participants were exposed to alternate perspectives and greater understanding of tolerance.

Film Screenings

On October 28th, a short film exploring the attitude of young people towards the rapidly changing world and its opportunities was presented by Akaliko-Kaaktalio with the help of Dhaka Electronica scene. Khan Mohammad Faisal and Imran R. Khan reinforce the idea of the length to which the youth is capable of impacting and influencing thoughts in this rapidly changing world, through 鈥淚nvisible Boundaries鈥?

On October 29th, three aspiring artists (Mahjabin Khan, Mahde Hasan and Abid Hasan Khan) shed light on the different convictions that may cage a person through their choices and opinions. 鈥淭he Sky isn't always Blue鈥?explores the religious laws forced upon women, focusing on the different ways religious guidelines are used and misused according to an individual's perspective.

Discussions

The Paradox called Secularism: Abdulla Al Mahmud and Tamanna Esabela tried to recognise the extent to which secularism can determine the progress in achieving democracy in this country through panel discussions with experts.

The panel included Dr. Dilara Chowdhury of North South University, Dhaka; Dr. Abdur Rob Khan of North South University and Arshi Saleem Hashmi of National Defence University, Islamabad (on Skype)

For follow-up on this topic, visit the page: www.facebook.com/ideasforchange

My City. My Home. My Identity: Samira Tamrin Ahmed and Towfique Ahmed Khan dug into the issues of identity in the urban scene through simple yet thought provoking questions at an open mic session on the 28th of October.

The Youth-Who? Where? Why?: Another open mic session by Fahima Durrat and Ahmed Shawki showcased the youth whose active participation in the development of various sectors of the urban landscape has contributed significantly in the progress of this nation.

Workshop on Lyric Writing

In collaboration with String Theories School of Music, Ashique M. Fahim led the participants through the process of song writing. Basic music theory, melody rhythms, structure, lyrical development and 'hooks' were looked at in detail.

Slam Poetry Presentation

Ahmad Ibrahim, Shaer Reaz, Kazi Tahsin Agaz and Ata Khan Mojlish, patrons of the Origami Poetry Slam art installation, introduced their project. 鈥淲hat would you say if you could say anything you wanted to and everyone was listening but no one was judging?鈥?Taking anecdotes and inspiration from all over Dhaka city, the group generated a beautiful poetry which sits on a large canvas at the roof of Goethe-institut, surrounded by hundreds of paper birds containing messages and empty spaces for new messages. Freedom of speech at its best!

Session by Dhaka Electronica Scene

The end of this exciting week was marked by mind melting electronic music by Dhaka Electronica Scene. The turn-up was overwhelming and the tracks soon got everyone at the venue moving. They had no other option! With some house music going on and the crowd dispersing, the entire place turned into a dance-floor and everyone was groovin' to the music. I enjoyed from a creepy corner; watching the people not care about their surroundings and just float away to the music. It was quite the eye-opening experience for anyone who's not into electronic music.

Though the interactive sessions are over, the exhibitions will stay on till the 24th of November.

Thoughtlessness

A sculpture portraying the observations made on today's youth by Sanjay Biswas and Protik Biswas. Though more and more opportunities present themselves in the society today, most of the youth are rendered aimless, guideless and even helpless by their own 鈥渢houghtlessness鈥?

Pawns Vs. Royals

The inspiration of this art instillation lies in the rising number of politically aware youngsters. Ahmad Ibrahim, Kazi Tahsin Agaz and team use uniformly painted pawns on a chessboard to represent the masses who are no longer guarding the King and Queen but closing in on them.

Portrait of Politics

A.J. Ghani uses powerful photographs with past political references to represent the situation in our country without actually turning it into documentary photography. It was refreshing in contrast to all the pictures of Shahbag that had been up for so long.

We are Bangladeshi, too

鈥淩eligion or lack of it has nothing to do with our national identity.鈥?This is the message that Anika Mariam Ahmed's graffiti transmits. Bearing the recent Shahbag Movement in mind, Anika's graffiti raises the question of how atheism is being frowned upon and not tolerated in a state that was supposed to be secular from the beginning.

SHOUT was the communication partner of the festival.





Photo: Darshan Chakma"

"Alliance Fran莽aise de Dhaka's La Galerie hosted two fashion catwalk workshops with fashion icon and development activist Bibi Russell in February 2013. In the concluding session of Bibi Russell's catwalk workshop on February 27, some 30 aspiring models took part in a fashion catwalk.

Earlier in January, a first very successful catwalk workshop with Bibi Russell was held at the Alliance Fran莽aise de Chittagong. Bibi Russell described the Ethno Fashion project as a huge challenge for her and hoped that this project will provide an excellent platform to the young designers and models.

She thanked the Goethe-institut and Alliance Fran莽aise de Dhaka and Chittagong for taking such an excellent initiative to promote Bangladesh's fashion industry.

Olivier Litvine, Director of AFD has said that the three workshops were organised as a part of a series of events linked to Ethno Fashion, the first international fashion show to be held in Bangladesh. The show will be organised sometime in June this year, which will be a milestone project in Bangladesh's fashion industry. This is a joint project between the Alliance Fran莽aises of Dhaka and Chittagong and Germany's Goethe-institut.

As part of this project, there will be a 10-day workshop to train young Bangladeshi designers in the process of making an original collection that will be worn by non-professional models and presented during three fashion shows (two in Dhaka and one in Chittagong). Three internationally acclaimed designers shall be conducting this workshop -- Sakina M'sa (France), Michael Sontag (Germany) and Bangladeshi fashion icon Bibi Russell.

The designers will be selected by a panel formed by Bibi Russell, the director of Goethe-institut Dhaka and Alliance Fran莽aise de Dhaka. The applicant will have to submit a portfolio or some kind of work as well as their motivation in the course of May.

The ultimate goal of this workshop is to provide young Bangladeshi designers with the opportunity to learn from experienced designers, be exposed to several influences and hopefully reveal their talent."
"Date: 17 May till 23 August

Venue: TSC, Dhaka University, or online: sroteabritti.org

Srote Abritti Shangshad is organising its 31st Abritti Kormoshala from 17 May, 2013. The duration of this workshop is 4 months and classes will be held on Fridays and Saturdays. Course fee is Tk 800.

Clear Street Soccer 2013

Date: 22 -- 25 May, 2013

Time: Evenings

Venue: Physical Training College, Lalmatia (Opposite of City Hospital)

Paperfox presents a grand football carnival, 鈥淐lear Street Soccer 2013,鈥?which would make the football-lovers go crazy. For girls, it's the time to show up in the battlefield and beat the boys.

But that is not all. There will be a friendly match between 'Cryptic Fate' and 'Shunno' to boost up the participants' energy level and live performances by these two leading bands and other independent artists. There will be a 160 x 8 feet graffiti, which will be the longest graffiti ever in Bangladesh done by the students of Charukola, BRAC University and IUT. Colour partner for the graffiti is Berger Paints. The title sponsor for the event is Clear and co-sponsors are Pepsi, Nescafe, Nestea, Bellissimo and Knorr.

The last date of registration is 18 May. For registration, please contact: 0167 474 4222. For more details and updates, visit their Facebook page: facebook.com/events/ 425203270907268/?fref=ts

Film show at Red Shift

Date: Sunday, 19 May and Friday, 24 May

Time: 7pm on Sunday; 4pm on Friday

Venue: Red Shift Coffee Lounge, Radius Centre, 5th Floor, Bay's Galleria , 57 Gulshan Avenue, Gulshan

""Zindagi na Milegi Dobara"" is an astounding Indian film which came out about a year ago. It was set in the wonderful surroundings of Spain but it is also a deeply philosophical essay on the meaning and values which go into making a good life. Starring Hrithik Roshan and Katrina Kaif, this film has Urdu, Hindi, English and even Spanish, but with excellent English subtitles!

For details on viewing, please contact Shiuly #883 3471-3 or 0173 005 4403.

Poetry Evening

Date: Friday, 17 May

Time: 7pm

Venue: Alliance Francaise, Dhaka

On the occasion of the publication of Rimbauder Kobita (Poems of Rimbaud) by Panthojon (presented and translated into Bangla by Dr Binoy Barman, Assistant Professor and Head of the Department of English, Daffodil International University), Alliance Fran莽aise de Dhaka organises a special poetry evening devoted to the Man with Soles of Wind, perhaps the greatest of all French poets. Dr Binoy Rahman, students of Alliance Fran莽aise and several other people will read some of Rimbaud's poems in French and Bangla. This poetry evening is organised in collaboration with the Writers Association of Bangladesh (WAB).

European Film Festival

Date: 18 to 25 May

Venue: Alliance Francaise, Dhaka

9 May was Europe Day, an annual celebration of peace and unity in Europe. Under the aegis of the European Delegation to Bangladesh this Film Festival will offer viewers a heady cocktail of cultural diversity of the kind Europe is known for. The selection of films is bound together by one central thread, the telling of stories about Europe, the countries, languages and histories that make it.

Further information will be available shortly on the home pages of the websites of the participating European embassies and cultural institutes.

50th Anniversary of the Franco-German Elys茅e

Date: 18 May to 8 Jun

Time: Daylong

Venue: Goethe-institut Bangladesh/La Galerie, House #10, Road #9 (new), Dhanmondi

On the occasion of the 50th anniversary of the Franco-German Elys茅e (Friendship) Treaty, Alliances Fran莽aises in Dhaka and Chittagong, and Goethe-institut Bangladesh are organising a three-week-long fashion design workshop from the month of May. Aimed at young Bangladeshi fashion designers, this workshop will be conducted by internationally renowned fashion designers Sakina M'SA from France, Michael Sontag from Germany, and Bibi Russell from Bangladesh. The outcome of the workshop will be the designing of a unique collection of original and eco-friendly pieces of clothing that respect the mutual traditions and the creative inspiration of the participants from Bangladesh, France and Germany.

The Collection, worn by non-professional models, will be presented to the press, professionals and the general public during three fashion shows in June in Dhaka and Chittagong. A unique event for a unique occasion, not to be missed!"
"Date: Wednesday, 5 June

Time: Daylong

Venue: 86/1B, Sadek Khan Road, Rayer Bazar, 1209 Dhaka, Bangladesh

World Environment Day (WED) is a day that raises awareness of the environment and enhances political attention and public action. 'WED' is observed every year on 5 June and is run by the United Nations Environment Program (UNEP).

Volunteer for Bangladesh (VBD) has planned to celebrate World Environment Day-2013 under the slogan 鈥淩espect the Environment, Respect Human Rights鈥?so as to make people and especially youth aware of the significance of saving the environment and protecting human rights. VBD will celebrate the occasion in three episodes.

1. Bangladesh Goes Green: VBD will plant seedlings in schools all over the country.

2. Riding Green: A cycle rally will be arranged to promote cycling on 7 June

3. Green Message: VBD will put informative and fictional banners in a comical way on trees all over Dhaka so as to inform the general people about the illegal eradication of trees in hill tracts, forest areas and other areas of the country

To register visit https://docs.google.com/ a/jaago.com.bd/forms/d/1FBtxh_xFRy9OyruX96WKP9Hxs4VN384rCjPMjYBVM_Q/edit

For further queries please call Shabbir Ahmad at 01731121492

Battle of the Bands '13

Date: Thursday, 6 June

Time: 6:00pm

Venue: International School Dhaka

It happens once a year at International School Dhaka -- the top student bands of Dhaka will compete to win the prestigious Band of the Year award given by the guest judges and an eight-hour recording slot at Incursion Studio. A slight change has been made this year. All bands must perform at least one of their own compositions. At the auditions, the original song and one other cover must be played. Ticket prices are as listed, If purchased between 2 May-3 June: Tk. 400; if purchased on 5 and 6 June: Tk. 600. Tickets will be sold at the gate on the day of the event but availability is not guaranteed. For any further queries, call Junaid at 01713148106 or email to [email protected].

Ethno Fashion

Date: Saturday, 8 June

Venue: Goethe-institut, House No. 10, Road No. 9 (new), Dhanmondi R/A, 1205 Dhaka, Bangladesh

Goethe-institut Dhaka and Alliances Fran莽aises in Dhaka and Chittagong have once more developed a joint cultural program, this time in the field of fashion design. Young students of fashion design are invited to a three-week long workshop conducted by two renowned fashion designers from France and Germany, Sakina M'SA and Michael Sontag, in cooperation with Bibi Russell, former Bangladeshi top model of the grand couture houses and special envoy of the UNESCO.

Within the framework of this workshop a collection of original and eco-friendly pieces of clothing that respect the mutual traditions and the creative inspiration of the participants from Bangladesh, France and Germany shall be designed and presented to the public. At the end of the workshop there will be a two-day-long fashion show at Alliance Fran莽aises in Dhaka and one fashion show in Chittagong. The Fashion Shows will take place at Alliance Fran莽aises. For further information email [email protected]."
"The unique designs by the participants of the workshop. Photo: Kazi Tahsin Agaz Apurbo

The unique designs by the participants of the workshop. Photo: Kazi Tahsin Agaz Apurbo

Fashion has taken a big leap forward in Bangladesh ever since young girls and boys suddenly started showing an interest in the field and pursuing their dreams but studying such a challenging yet fun subject. Universities like Shanto-Mariam University of Creative Technology, Pearl Fashion Institute, BGMEA University of Fashion and Technology, Raffles Institute of Higher Education, and many more have been catering to the needs of these young hopeful designers and guiding them up to a certain extent. But at the end of the day, any dream needs a little more nourishment and hard work to come true.

On the occasion of the 50th anniversary of the Franco-German Elys茅e Treaty, which ended centuries of enmity between Germany and France and established a new foundation for relation fifty years ago, Goethe-institut Dhaka and Alliances Fran莽aises in Dhaka and Chittagong, sharing common values and artistic approaches, have developed again a joint cultural program, this time in the field of fashion design.

The unique designs by the participants of the workshop. Photo: Kazi Tahsin Agaz Apurbo

Since May 18, awarded fashion designers Sakina M'SA (Paris), Bibi Russel (Dhaka) and Michael Sontag (Berlin) have conducted a workshop for ten selected Bangladeshi fashion design students taking into consideration the mutual traditions and the creative inspiration of the participants. The organizers are proud to be able to present a colorful and exciting collection of original and eco-friendly pieces of clothing to the public after only three weeks. The participating designers were Nazia Afroz, Iffat Ara, Rubaiya Haque Raka, Homaira Hasin Sadia, Tasmit Afiyat (Arny), Kehkasha Sabah, Sifat Zaman, Yaana Nuzhat, Jarin Tasnim Ona and Md Hanif Kaiser.

The designers were selected by a panel formed by Bibi Russell, the director of Goethe-institut Dhaka and Alliance Fran莽aise de Dhaka. The applicants had to submit a portfolio or some kind of work as well as their motivation in the course in May.

Photo: Kazi Tahsin Agaz Apurbo

These participants were trained thoroughly by the three esteemed designers. Sakina M'SA took the responsibility of teaching these young designers everything about pattern making, Michael Sontag taught them everything about draping while Bibi Russel covered all the basic areas of fashion designing and how to make an outfit. The whole purpose of the workshop was to teach the future of Bangladeshi design how to make use of our own products and use deshi fabric into making gorgeous outfits. 鈥淲e always want to buy foreign material when it comes to making a dress because we think it's just somehow going to be better. But through this workshop, we have all come to realise the kind of potential our own fabrics have and we learned how to use them to their fullest extent and make something brilliant out of it,鈥?says Jarin Tasnim Ona, one of the participants and a diploma holder in Fashion Design from Shanto-Marium University of Creative Technology. She continues, 鈥淓ven though I have already gotten a diploma in this field, through this workshop I have come to realise that there still a lot left to learn. More than learning, Fashion Design is a lot about innovation and imagination and this workshop gave us that exact scope- to use our imaginations and creativity through everything that they have taught us.鈥?
Photo: Kazi Tahsin Agaz Apurbo

After the three weeks long workshop, two fashion shows were held on June 7 and 8, 2013 in La Galerie and in the Alliance Francaise de Dhaka courtyard where twenty three models were dressed in colourful and exquisitely designed outfits by the participants. The models were trained through a series of catwalk workshops held by Bibi Russel.

One June 10, the show moved to Chittagong as these unique clothes by the participants were displayed as well. The event is also sponsored by Montagut, Getco and Aarong.

Being the first ever international workshop on design to be held in Dhaka, such an initiative can give more inspiration and hope to the youth to pursue their career in creating clothing masterpieces and someday making a name in the fashion map of the world."
"echo $news_row['superhead']; ?> echo $news_row['headline']; ?> echo $news_row['subhead']; ?>



Notice: Undefined variable: row in /var/www/archive/newDesign/print_news.php on line 297



The Maitree Express Train could not be popular since its resumption four years ago due to objectionable actions by the Indian side in the name of checking passengers, said Bangladesh Railway (BR) officials.

Although the Indian authorities have stopped using the dog squad for checking passengers just last month in the face of strong objection from Bangladesh, they continue to confine passengers in a cage-like structure at the border station of Gede until the checking of all the passengers is over.

The passengers are not allowed to take their seats in the train even after the customs and immigration formalities are done. BR officials termed the practice outrageous and disgraceful.

However, Bangladesh authorities check passengers with metal detectors and allow them to take seats after the customs and immigration formalities are done at Darsana station.

Previously, Indian security agencies with dog squads used to get on the Maitree Express to check the passengers of the trans-boundary train at the Gede station. Women, children and elderly people on the train would be frightened, some even cried, seeing the large canines coming towards them and sniffing around.

The Maitree train resumed service in April 2008, after a break of 43 years. Every Friday one train of BR leaves Dhaka for Kolkata and returns on Saturday while an Indian train reaches Dhaka on Tuesday and returns back to Kolkata the next day.

The disappointing fact is that when hundreds of Bangladeshis go to India every day by other modes of transport, only 103 people on an average take the Maitree train, which offers accommodation for 234 passengers.

A senior railway official said, 锟組aitree train can't attract people as they are searched by dog squads and confined in a cage for hours.锟?
In an Inter-Governmental Railway Meeting (IGRM) held in Delhi on May 7-8, Bangladesh strongly objected to the use of dog squad and the confinement of passengers. After that India, which earlier refused to withdraw the dog squad, stopped the practice.

Bangladesh Railway also put forward some proposals in the meeting.

锟絎e proposed to handle luggage as it is done in airports. The luggage can be tagged before people get on the train and be collected on showing the corresponding tags,锟?BR Additional Director General (Operations) Mohammad Shahjahan told The Daily Star.

Letting freedom fighters travel on Maitree train free of cost was another proposal tabled in the meeting, he said, adding that the Indian side had half-heartedly agreed to the proposals.

Shahjahan, who headed a two-member delegation to the IGRM, said the luggage handling procedures in the trans-boundary train stand in the way of popularising the service. 锟絀t is difficult for elderly and female travellers to carry their luggage on several occasions during the journey.锟?
He hoped the Indian side would immediately stop the practice of keeping passengers waiting in a cage and implement the BR proposals as soon as possible."
"In conversation with Andreas Schlaegel





German artist and art critic Andreas Schlaegel was in Dhaka recently. During his stay, he conducted a five-day workshop on cultural journalism, from June 10-14, at the Goethe-institut Bangladesh (GIB) in Dhanmondi. Arranged by the German Cultural Centre, the workshop firmly focused on developing expertise in constructive criticism for cultural reports.

During his stay, the German artist had a chance to exchange views with local journalists and took the opportunity to learn about cultural practices in Bangladesh. During the workshop, The Daily Star caught up with him. Here are excerpts from the conversation:

Q: How was the workshop?

A: The workshop was fun; the participants showed a lot of enthusiasm. I feel that they have great potential for growth. I hope this experience will be beneficial for these journalists.

Q: What were your expectations from the participants?

A: I was expecting a very diverse group and the participants were definitely very dynamic and everyone contributed in enlightening discussions during the workshop. The different temperament of the participants was very refreshing. I hope they will use the materials I have provided in the workshop successfully. I also advised them to stay in touch with me for further communications. It is also important that they make their own discoveries -- using these materials as stepping stone.

Q: Do you want to return to Bangladesh in future to do similar kind of workshops again?

A: I would love to come back to Bangladesh if there are opportunities to hold similar workshops again. The Goethe-institut organised this workshop and is working towards ensuring cultural exchange between Bangladesh and Germany with this kind of events. It is possible that a second workshop will take place soon, where the participants of the first workshop will be given priority along with new individuals.

Q: How was your stay in Dhaka?

A: My stay in Dhaka has been very brief, just five days. I have visited several places during this short stay, including the Dhaka Art Centre, Britto Arts Trust, and the National Art Gallery, which is under construction. The art history of Bangladesh is intriguing and I remain curious about the activities of the next generation.

Andreas Schlaegel studied Fine Arts at Hochschule der K眉nste- St盲delschule, Frankfurt, Germany. He completed his MA in Fine Arts from Goldsmiths College, UK.

Since the late 1990s his writings have been published regularly by international art magazines such as Frieze d/e (Berlin), Spike (Vienna), Flash Art (Milan) and 002 (Paris).

As an artist, he has created collaborative formats in between exhibition, sculpture and performance. Most prominently last year, he collaborated with artist collective Gelitin at TBA21 in Vienna and at the Venice Biennale.

He co-founded the Art Critics Orchestra (ACO) in 2003. He is also involved with the rock band The B-Men.

The writer is Star Online Correspondent."
"



'Literary Encounters' is a programme initiated by Goethe-institut and implemented by its partners to introduce contemporary German literature (English translation). The programme is held once every two months in Dhaka and Chittagong, says a press release. The latest instalment of the programme will be held on September 18 at 6pm at Goethe-institut, Dhanmondi, in the city.

This time the reading circle introduces and discusses 鈥淭he Box鈥?by eminent German author and Nobel laureate G眉nter Grass. In his controversial autobiography, 鈥淧eeling the Onion鈥?(2006), Grass described his life between the ages of 12 and 30, before he had achieved worldwide fame as a writer with 鈥淭he Tin Drum鈥? In 鈥淭he Box鈥?he finds a means of continuing the narrative from the early 1960s to the early 1990s through the involvement of his eight children who are cunningly introduced as semi-fictionalised puppets yielding to their father's 18th birthday wish that they should gather to record on tape their collective impressions of him. By standing back in this way from his own autobiography, Grass manages to distance himself from his monumental public image as a political campaigner and writer of contested fiction.

The book presentation will be followed by a slideshow by noted Bangladeshi photographer Nasir Ali Mamun, who accompanied G眉nter Grass during his visit to Dhaka in 1986."
"Envoy tells press after meeting FM





Canada will not extradite Nur Chowdhury, one of the convicted killers of Bangabandhu, as a Canadian policy does not approve sending back a person where there is provision of death sentence.

Canadian High Commissioner in Dhaka Heather Cruden told this to reporters emerging from a meeting with Foreign Minister Dipu Moni at the foreign ministry yesterday.

鈥淪he (the foreign minister) did indeed raise the issue. I have committed to raise it again with my government. Of course, my government has clear policy that we cannot extradite people to countries that have death penalty,鈥?she said in response to question from journalists.

Sources said during the meeting the issue of extraditing Major (retd) Nur Chowdhury figured prominently and the foreign minister reminded the high commissioner about her October 5 letter to Canadian Foreign Minister John Baird with request to handover the convicted killer to Bangabandhu.

Meeting sources said the Canadian envoy told the foreign minister that the Canadian government understands that the matter is very much important to Bangladesh.

As this involves legal matters, sources said the high commissioner assured that she would again inform her government about the Bangladesh government's intention.

Dipu Moni also wrote similar letter on October 5 to the US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton asking Lt Col (Retd) M Rashed Chowdhury, who is now residing in the United States, to be sent back.

The Father of the Nation Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman and most of his family members were brutally killed on August 15, 1975 by some disgruntled army officials.

After a long trial, the court awarded death sentences to 12 people. Of them, five were hanged, one died, six are still absconding. Syed Faruque Rahman, Sultan Shahriar Rashid Khan, Bazlul Huda, Mohiuddin Ahmed and AKM Mohiuddin were executed on January 28, 2010.

The absconding convicted killers are: Col (retd) Khandkar Abdur Rashid, Lt Col (retd) Shariful Haque Dalim, Major (retd) Nur Chowdhury, Lt Col (Retd) M Rashed Chowdhury, Abdul Mazed and Moslehuddin Khan.

Abdul Aziz Pasha died in Zimbabwe in 2001."
"



Judith Mirschberger

Goethe-institut, the cultural institute of the Federal Republic of Germany, has been present in Bangladesh for 50 years now. Recently, German President Christian Wulff visited the institute located in Dhanmondi, Dhaka. For Judith Mirschberger, Director of Goethe-Instut (GI), it was a great honour to hear from the German President that GI has made significant contribution to the German-Bangla cooperation. Mirschberger shared her views with The Daily Star recently:

What does Goethe-institut do to bring Bangladesh and Germany closer?

Mirschberger: The Goethe-institut promotes the German language abroad, fosters cultural exchange and tries to convey a comprehensive picture of modern Germany by providing information on the cultural, social and political life.

Could you elaborate on this?

Mirschberger: Our main task is teaching German language. We count nearly 1000 inscriptions for the courses per year and around 300 tests are completed. The cultural events at the Goethe-institut include music performances, theatre and exhibitions. We regularly invite German artists and experts and bring them in contact with local artists and experts. Furthermore our library offers a wide range of information on German literature and electronic media.

Is the German Language Programme successful in Bangladesh?

Mirschberger: Many who enroll in the programme are students who intend to study in Germany. A proof of language skills is necessary to receive a residence permit from the German state. In addition, the GI cooperates with five schools in Dhaka and Chittagong, where German classes have recently been introduced.

But the Goethe-institut is not only open to students, right?

Mirschberger: Our doors are open to everyone, seven days a week. We have two cafes where students, employees, neighbours and everyone else can meet. Also the cultural programmes are open to the public. Only access to some workshops is limited.

The cultural centre cooperates with national and internal institutions?

Mirschberger: That is correct. Several institutions contact us with a project draft or even just ideas. We usually sit together if we like the project and try to find a way to realise it. Some of our partners are: Drik Gallery, Srishti Cultural Centre, Dhaka University, University of Liberal Arts, Pathshala and many more. We're also trying to improve our collaboration with European governmental institutions such as the Alliance Francaise in order to strengthen European cooperation.

What's in the pipeline for Goethe-institut?

Mirschberger: Our greatest challenge is to generate enough German speaking teachers and keep the number on a constant level. It will take a while for German language to have a strong foothold in the literary circuit of Bangladesh. We want to keep experimenting. We are planning several projects in public space for next year. Goethe-institute is a platform, an open space, where new things can happen.

For further information, please go to www.goethe.de/dhaka.

The author is working as an intern for The Daily Star."
"



Curtain came down on Chobi Mela VI -- International Festival of Photography -- on February 3, after two weeks of showcasing creative talents in 29 print and 31 digital exhibitions. Exhibitions of some of the most remarkable photographic works were held at Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy (BSA), Alliance Francaise de Dhaka, Asiatic Gallery of Fine Arts, British Council, Drik Gallery, Goethe-institut and Faculty of Fine Arts (Dhaka University).

Among the numerous fascinating photographs displayed during the festival, it was Karen Knorr's ""The Queen's Room"" that stirred the greatest interest. As it was used as the logo of the festival, people got to see it on the posters of Chobi Mela on the walls of Dhaka. The image was from Knorr's photographic series called ""India Song"". When asked if she would like to comment on the photo, Knorr said: 鈥淚t considers women's space, which is called zanana in Mughal and Rajput architecture, addressing femininity and its relationship with the animal world.鈥?
The beauty of the photos on display at Lichutola, Faculty of Fine Arts, Dhaka University was almost hypnotising. The celebration of the rich visual culture of northern India was too evident to miss. However, the artiste did not want the viewers to have a depoliticised interpretation of her works, overlooking the issues addressed.

Joanna Petrie's exhibition, titled ""The Girl who Fell to Earth"" at the British Council was also remarkable in its ability to shock and fascinate at the same time.

The largest exhibition of the festival was at BSA. Works of internationally recognised photographers like Bronek Kozka, Kelly Hussey-Smith, Sayed Asif Mahmud, Amit Mehra, Ali Akbar Shirjian, Kosuke Okahara, Carlos Cazalis and Morten Krogvold were on display.

The profound alienation of people in overcrowded Dhaka was reflected in the artistic works of Asif Mahmud. Bronek Kozka's photos were also remarkable in the way they captured the subtle emotions and tension inside suburban homes in Australia. Questions of homelessness and intrusion were addressed in the photographs.

鈥淭he overwhelming sense of Chobi Mela VI in Dhaka, Bangladesh is one of potential. Huge creative potential, the potential to change the narrative of the global community, recast its mythologies and restate its essence,鈥?said Chris Riley from USA. 鈥淔rom Dhaka the stories must be different; they must be from a different perspective and in a different form. This is the Chobi Mela challenge: to emerge into the world and change it,鈥?he added.

Dr. Shahidul Alam, festival director recalled how people were incredulous when Drik decided to set up its own festival of photography, which would showcase the work of Bangladeshi artistes alongside the most exciting works from the rest of the world. Against all odds the Chobi Mela festival has gone from strength to strength. 鈥淚f impossibility is a criterion for success, then Chobi Mela has all the credentials,鈥?said Alam.

To achieve this success Drik additionally used new technologies to include a global audience by live broadcast on Drik TV (www.drik.tv) the inauguration at the National Theatre Auditorium, Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy and the evening presentations at Goethe-institut from January 21-27."
"There is no shortage of photography festivals and events in this part of the world. In fact, the number might be close to 50 festivals, with the Angkor Photo Festival in Siem Reap, Cambodia, remaining a major international photography event. Newer events like Photo Kathmandu, PhotoBangkok Festival and Chennai Photo Biennale have also turned heads in recent years.

In this part of the world, we have the Obscura Festival Of Photography, which was founded in 2013. It has been closely tied to the George Town Festival programme, which has naturally made the festival鈥檚 base in Penang.

This year, the Obscura Festival, which runs at George Town Festival on Aug 25-31, is taking on the theme of 鈥渕ultiplicity鈥?

Vignes Balasingam, the founder and director of the festival, says that the theme is a way to 鈥渄iscuss the many facets of personal, private, social and philosophical truths we are faced with and often come in conflict with.鈥?
The upcoming Obscura Festival will feature the works of 23 photographers from around the world who were selected from a pool of 400 applicants.

Their work, says Vignes, will explore the themes of family, relationships, environment, science, space, history, heritage, gender and others 鈥?all under the umbrella of multiplicity.

Now entering its sixth year, the festival opens on August 25 as part of the annual George Town Festival (GTF) with exhibitions, masterclasses, presentations, photo books, panel discussions and portfolio reviews happening at various venues in Penang, including the Hin Bus Depot, The Black Kettle, Awesome Canteen, Cheah Kongsi and the Poh Hock Sah Temple.

The Obscura Festival is on at George Town Festival in Penang next month. Photo: Tang Chun Cheuh

Vignes, when speaking about the featured photographers, who come from countries like Belarus, Russia, Japan, China, Singapore, South Africa, Brazil, Poland and Thailand, says his Obscura team 鈥渃hose a mix of deeply personal vignettes, as well as powerful documentaries and social commentaries.鈥?
But more than the exhibition itself, the true backbone of the Obscura Festival is its masterclasses.

These masterclasses, seven in total this year, will begin on Aug 18 and are designed to not only to educate the participants but also to establish photography as an art form and a language that is deeply needed by all of society.

The masterclasses this year will be conducted by two-time World Press Photo winner Peter Bialobrzeski, conflict photographer Saiful Huq Omi, Leonard Pongo, Ian Teh, Wawi Navarroza, Miti Ruangkritya, Peter Bialobrzeski and Maggie Steber. These instructors bring with them invaluable knowledge and experience in the field of photography.

Another anticipated event of the festival is the portfolio reviews which gives photographers an opportunity to showcase their work to some of the industry鈥檚 most esteemed names.

The masterclasses by experienced instructors provide participants invaluable photography lessons.锟?Photo: Tang Chun Cheuh

鈥淭his is for anyone who鈥檚 hungry and willing to be put to the challenge of becoming better photographers and more responsible members of society.

鈥淒espite the serious deficit in financial support and interest locally, Obscura Festival has taken the responsibility along with its few but significant partners to transform the landscape of photography for Malaysia and for South-East Asia and the Pacific,鈥?says Vignes, a professional photographer, who has seen the Obscura Festival rise from the grassroots.

Vignes assures that the festival, which normally attracts more than 10,000 visitors, will have a litte bit of something for everyone.

鈥淔or those who have a keener interest in the discussions on the photographs and discussions that surround each work, we organise gallery walks and talks with the curators or the artists themselves.

鈥淲e also hold artist talks and in-depth conversations which aren鈥檛 just for the photographers, but as a means for the artist to communicate with the public about the reason for their project and the thought processes and struggles behind them,鈥?he tells.

Panel discussions and talks with the curators and artists are available for those who have a keen interest in all things photography.锟?Photo: Tang Chun Cheuh

Although the festival is part of the GTF, Vignes says it is 鈥渃ompletely independent and enjoy cross-collaborations with other institutions, festivals, individuals and organisations who share our vision.鈥?
鈥淲e have been active around the world with curations opening in other festivals such as the Chennai Photo Biennale (2015), the Jeon-Ju Photo Festival, South Korea (2017), Photo 17, Zurich (2017).

鈥淲e also have a travelling exhibition through a fantastic photography programme we ran with the Goethe-institut Malaysia which has shown the work of 12 South-East Asian photographers in Penang, Singapore, Bandung and Jakarta,鈥?reveals Vignes.

Ultimately, has the Obscura Festival achieved its goal of nurturing a new generation of photographers?

Vignes says it has.

鈥淪ince its inception, the festival has already given birth to one World Press Photo winner (Britain鈥檚 Julie McGuire) from our photography workshops programme. We have also helped Malaysian photographers in exhibiting their works. Some have seen their works being published in the New York Times, the Washington Post and other international media platforms.

鈥淭he festival has also run possibly the biggest young talent programme in South-East Asia through the South-East Asian Photography Masterclass with our partners the Goethe-institut Malaysia and the Berlin-based Ostkreuz Photographers鈥?Agency,鈥?he says.

The Obscura Festival of Photography is on at the George Town Festival in Penang on Aug 25-31. The masterclasses will commence on Aug 18. Registration for the masterclasses is now open. To register, visit锟?
Obscura Festival."
"2 major gatherings

Fete National

For some family fun, attend the Fete National, or Bastille Day at the Alliance Francaise de KL. On Sunday from noon to midnight celebrate the national day of France with this fun-filled programme for all ages. The itinerary includes a French country buffet and food and beverage coupon sales on-site. From noon to 6pm kids can enjoy a fun inflatable playground and singing and dancing contests. For the adults, from 6pm and midnight, a shuffle dance and EDM party. Visit the Alliance Francaise de KL at 12, Jalan Gurney Kiri, Kuala Lumpur. Register your attendance by tomorrow at alliancefrancaise.org.my.

The Beetle, An Iconic Gathering

Volkswagen is calling all Beetle enthusiasts to join the largest Beetle gathering in Malaysia. The Beetle, An Iconic Gathering is an event that celebrates the cult classic and Volkswagen also intends to break the current Malaysian record of largest Beetle gathering at one location. The car brand is calling out to all owners of the Beetle to join the efforts. Kicking off at 11am tomorrow will be a 150-strong Beetle Sunshine Tour convoy which will be flagged off in the heart of Kuala Lumpur. After driving through the streets of the Golden Triangle the convoy will head to Putrajaya to the open-air car park of the Palace of Justice, to join the rest of the Beetle fanatics. Participation is free, and if you are interested register at volkswagen.com.my.

1 informative panel discussion

What Dementia Teaches Us About Love

Over at Lit Books there will be a book panel discussion on Nicci Gerrard鈥檚 new book What Dementia Teaches Us About Love. The book is personal, as Gerrard鈥檚 father suffered from dementia, and she analyses the multiple perspectives, assumptions and trials that come with his disease. She offers an insight to challenges faced by patients and those who look after them. Gerrard deals with how dementia patients shape our understanding of identity and also touches on therapies that help patients. The panel discussion will discuss this book in hopes to raise awareness about dementia, with the help of consultant neurologist at Pantai Hospital Kuala Lumpur, Dr Rishikesan Kuppusamy. Sharing his views on the book and providing his expert knowledge on the issue, Kuppusamy will be joined by BFM89.9 presenter Lee Chwi Lyn and Lit Books founder Fong Min Hun. The audience will also have the chance to ask questions. The event will be held tomorrow from 4pm to 5pm. Admission is free at Lit Books, P-01-11 Level 1, Tropicana Avenue, 12 Jalan Persiaran Tropicana, Petaling Jaya. Visit litbooks.com.my for more information.

1 helpful class

Repair: 5 basic hand sewing skills

Being independent and fixing your own clothes is an important lesson for all adults. Also, as it becomes more apparent that fast fashion is one of the biggest waste contributers, its imperitive that we learn how to mend rather than to just throw our clothes out. The Hive Bulk Foods is running Repair: 5 basic hand sewing skills on Sunday from 10am to noon. Instead of relying on a sewing machine, the course will teach you how to repair and make your clothing more long-lasting. Techniques included in the class are sewing a button by hand, mending a hole in your socks, repairing a hem by hand, mending towels and sewing a ripped hole in your garments. The class is priced at RM50. To book a slot visit thehivebulkfoods.com.

2 musical evenings

REXKL

If experimental performances are your thing, head over to REXKL for an improvisation by visual artists, dancers and musicians. Presented by RAW Art Space, The Saxaphone Store, KLEX, LaoBan records and REXKL, the show takes place tomorrow night at 8.30pm. The performance features visual artists Ong Chia Koon and Tey Beng Tze, and dancers Kathyn Tan Chai Chen, Fatin Nadhirah Rahmat and Tan Bee Hung. Musicians joining them will be saxaphonists Yong Yandsen and Chung Ping Wei, dummer Max Riefer and vocalist Kok Siew-Wai. Tickets are priced at RM35. REXKL is located in Jalan Sultan, Kuala Lumpur.

Rachel Guerzo Trio

For an evening of live music, go to Alexis Bistro Ampang for Rachel Guerzo Trio. This talented Malaysian-born singer is part of the most influencial music family, and is the grandaughter of Alfonso Soliano. Considered one of the most innovative jazz musicians in her own right, Guerzo is an accomplished pianist and is in possession of a rich and sultry voice. She is a giften entertainer, giving popular jazz and chart topping R&B tunes a new twist. She has worked with Jeremy Monteiro, Michael Veerapen, Pascoal Mirelles, Steve Thornton, Valtinho Anastascio and Lewis Pragasam. Guerzo has two internationally recognised solo albums, as well as having produced Alfonso25. Performing tonight and tomorrow night, the show starts at 10pm. Music charge is RM10. Head to Alexis Bistro Ampang in Great Eastern Mall, 303 Jalan Ampang, Kuala Lumpur. For more information visit alexis.com.my.

1 dance-theatre production

The Strangers

Bringing together internationally renowned Eastern and Western artistes, The Strangers is crafted by Argentinean director Leandro Kees and dramaturg Julia Dina Hebe. Supported by the Goethe-institut Malaysia and Japan Foundation, Kuala Lumpur, the performance has a line-up of dancers from Japan, Malaysia, Korea and Thailand. Performers included are Sang-hun Lee, Ying Yun Chen, James Kan, and Kanako Ihara. This travelling show premiered in Okinawa last year, and has toured in Taiwan, Thailand and Myanmar. Filled with non-verbal scenes, the fluid movements resemble mimes, addressing the dancers differences and themes of belonging. The show is on tomorrow night at 8pm and on Sunday at 3pm. Tickets are RM68. Head to DPAC at H-01, DPAC, Empire Damansara, Jalan PJU 8/8, Damansara Perdana, Petaling Jaya. To buy tickets visit dpac.com.my.

1 community cinema experience

BacKLane Cinema

The pop-up community cinema BacKLane Cinema will be hosting their third screening today at 7pm onwards. Exploring the theme of 鈥淐onnections鈥? they will be showing old-school wayang pacak style of films. In the place of grass, you will watch the film in the streets of downtown Kuala Lumpur. This experience is free, and encourages the community to gather in a public space. Showing the award-winning PEKAK!, a film for 18+ directed by Mohd Khairul Azri Mohd Noor. Starring Zahiril Adzim, Sharifah Amani and Amerul Affendi, the film follows the tale of a deaf drug pusher whose dream is to get a cochlear implant. He falls in love and strives to no longer be a criminal. The pop-up cinema is at Lorong Bandar 13, Kuala Lumpur. For more information visit facebook.com/backlanecinemakl.

2 comedic characters

Ahmed Ahmed

Bobo Laughs presents Ahmed Ahmed, a talented individual who is a comedian, actor and producer. Ahmed made a name for himself with his co-founded comedy tour The Axis of Evil which subsequently aired on Comedy Central. He is also a winner of The Richard Pryor Award for ethnic comedy at The Edinburgh Fringe Festival. Recently he has become the host for Comedy Central Asia鈥檚 series Stand Up Asia!. Watch this hilarious comedian tonight and tomorrow at 9.30pm. Tickets are priced at RM80 or RM65 for Bobo diners. Visit Bobo KL at 65-1, Jalan Bangkung, Bangsar, Kuala Lumpur. Buy tickets at bobokl.com.

The Joke Factory鈥檚 Mystery Headliner

If you are a fan of suprises, catch The Joke Factory鈥檚 Mystery Headliner. The secret guest is rumoured to be a master storyteller, who has spent seven years sharpening his craft in Korea. Founder of Stand Up Seoul, and winner of 鈥淏est Stand Up鈥?at the 2016 Canadian Comedy Awards, he is launching Mad About Comedy Bangkok this month. Having performed across Asia since 2005, you are in for a night of multiple belly laughs. The show tonight is hosted by Kavin Jay and tomorrow night it is hosted by Papi Zak. Starting at 8.30pm, tickets are priced at RM50 or RM60 at the door. Head to The Joke Factory at Lot 26, Level G3, Publika Shopping Gallery, Jalan Dutamas 1, Solaris Dutamas, Kuala Lumpur. For more information visit thejokefactory.com.my."
"THE EUFF (European Union Film Festival) is celebrating its 20th anniversary in Malaysia this year.

It will take place at selected Golden Screen Cinemas outlets in Kuala Lumpur (GSC Mid Valley, GSC Pavilion KL and GSC 1 Utama) from Oct 17 to 27, and in Penang at GSC Gurney Plaza from Oct 31 to Nov 6.

This year鈥檚 festival line-up will feature 19 award-winning films from 15 European countries as well as non-EU countries of Switzerland and Norway.

The majority of the films are collaborations or joint-productions between these countries.

Many are courtesy of a project by the European Commission managed by a consortium formed by Goethe-institut together with Institut Fran莽ais and Cineuropa, the portal for the promotion of European cinema.

According to Maria Castillo Fernandez, the ambassador and head of the EU Delegation to Malaysia, Europe has many cultures, languages and lifestyles.

鈥淭hrough EUFF, we celebrate our cultural diversity. We put culture at the centre of our international partnerships around the world, including with Malaysia,鈥?she said.

鈥淲e hope that these films not only entertain, inspire and teach [everyone] about European culture but also open people鈥檚 eyes to how both European and Malaysian people enjoy cultural diversity.鈥?
Among the films that will be featured are The King鈥檚 Choice (Norway), King of the Belgians (Belgium, the Netherlands and Bulgaria), Out (Hungary, Slovakia, Czech Republic, France and Latvia), The Last Touch (Switzerland) and Les Invisibles (France).

Six films 鈥?Lada Kamenski (Croatia), Winter Flies (Czech Republic), Ailo鈥檚 Journey (Finland), The Romantic Exiles (Spain), Don鈥檛 Stop Me Now (Italy) and As Needed (Italy) 鈥?will be screened for free at all participating cinemas.

Coupons for the free screenings can be downloaded or screenshot from www.euff.com.my and redeemed at the participating GSC ticketing counters on a first-come, first-served basis.

For the other films, tickets go on sale from Oct 10.

For more, visit the EUFF Malaysia website."
"THE Delegation of the European Union to the Philippines and the EU member-states鈥?embassies will present Cine Europa 25 from September 15 to October 30, 2022.

Dr. Ana-Isabel Sanchez-Ruiz, deputy head of the country鈥檚 EU delegation, opened the film festival on September 14 in SM Seaside, Cebu City.

鈥淔ilm is deeply rooted in Europe鈥檚 culture, which we are very proud about,鈥?explained Dr. Sanchez-Ruiz. 鈥淚t mirrors our identity, and speaks a lot about our heritage, and what we are.鈥?
Cebu has been one of the pioneer host-cities of the film festival when Cine Europa was brought outside Manila in 2001.

For the past 25 years the delegation considers Cine Europa as the 鈥漢allmark cultural event of the EU to the Philippines.鈥?Beyond showing European films, this program has become a platform to strengthen cultural relations and collaboration with Philippine cultural institutions and other partners.

With the pandemic easing up, the silver anniversary edition of Cine Europa will follow a hybrid format, which will open doors both physically and virtually to every Filipino, while endeavoring to ensure the safety and health of everyone.

In its silver year, Cine Europa brings no less than 30 films from 15 EU member-states for free. These may be watched onsite in select venue partners in Cebu City, Metro Manila, Iloilo and Palawan, or online upon signing up at www.cineeuropaph.com.

The EU Delegation thanks its constant and valuable venue partners such as SM Cinemas and SM City Cebu Seaside as hosts of this year鈥檚 festival鈥檚 opening, the Film Development Council of the Philippines, the National Parks Development Committee, and the Cultural Center of the Philippines, which will feature Cine Europa films in their indoor and outdoor venues.

The delegation, the EU member-states鈥?embassies, together with Cult煤r 脡ireann, Irish Film Institute, Goethe-institut, Instituto Cervantes de Manila and the Philippine-Italian Association have curated a set of award-winning films showcasing different genres that will attract every viewer. This year, it has particular emphasis on young people, in celebration of the European Year of Youth 2022, and with the guest participation of a Ukrainian film in solidarity with Ukraine and its people.

Visit Cine Europa鈥檚 venue-partners鈥?locations to watch all the films, or register via www.cineeuropaph.com to enjoy them online at the comfort of home. The festival is also on Facebook at Cine Europa PH, and Instagram at @cineuropaph."
"Multi-platinum selling pop-rock band 5 Seconds of Summer recently released their highly anticipated fifth studio album, 5SOS5 鈥?listen HERE. With 5SOS5, the band has ascended to the next level musically. The 19-track album showcases the band鈥檚 multi-faceted artistry and growth over their 10-year career, highlighting their dynamic pop-punk sound paired with reflective and intimate lyrics, with the majority of the new album written by the band and Michael Clifford leading on production.

The release of 5SOS5 includes their brand new single 鈥淏ad Omens鈥欌€?as well as previously released tracks 鈥淏lender鈥? 鈥淭ake My Hand鈥? & 鈥淢e, Myself & I鈥? which gave fans an eagerly awaited preview of what to expect from the album. On Vulture鈥檚 list of most anticipated fall albums, they write: 鈥淓arly singles 鈥楥omplete Mess鈥?and 鈥楳e Myself & I鈥?promise more of the group鈥檚 signature power-pop sound, while adding a little synth-pop flair.鈥?
5SOS5 also includes the band鈥檚 smash hit 鈥淐OMPLETE MESS鈥? an anthemic single that took airwaves by storm as the #2 most added at Top 40 Radio with 100+ stations in the first week. The single was hailed by critics, with Rolling Stone (Australia) writing: 鈥渋ts nascent arrival showcase[es] the group鈥檚 evolved sound as they balance an expansive vibe with contemporary pop sensibilities 鈥?considered compositions and mature sound showcase a new version of 5 Seconds of Summer, but not one that is so far removed from what made them icons in the first place.鈥?
In celebration of the release of 5SOS5, 5 Seconds of Summer played an exclusive global livestream 鈥淭he Feeling of Falling Upwards鈥?last night from the world-famous Royal Albert Hall in London. The band performed a set of reimagined versions of songs from their 11-year catalogue, plus brand-new songs from the new album, accompanied by an orchestra and choir.

Watch the band鈥檚 live performance of brand new single 鈥淏ad Omens鈥?here.

5SOS5 is the band鈥檚 first album to be released independently via BMG. The deluxe CD and digital versions of the album include 19 tracks with cassette and vinyl formats also available. Complete track listing is below.

5SOS5 TRACKLISTING:

COMPLETE MESS Easy For You To Say Bad Omens Me Myself & I Take My Hand CAROUSEL Older HAZE You Don鈥檛 Go To Parties BLENDER Caramel Best Friends Bleach Red Line Moodswings Flatline Emotions Bloodhound TEARS!

Image credits: Andy Deluca





"
"鈥淓verybody goes around with their phones. Most of us end up with our own silent films. This genre, for me, is very much mainstream.鈥?
Thus said Martin Macalintal, audiovisual attach茅 from the French Embassy in the Philippines, on whether or not silent films are still capable of making a comeback or becoming part of the mainstream consciousness in the age of digital technology.

ADVERTISEMENT

鈥淭he difference now is where you watch the content鈥攅ither on your phone or on a widescreen,鈥?explained Macalintal during a media gathering to launch the 15th edition of the International Silent Film Festival Manila (ISFFM), which is ongoing until Dec. 3.

The ISFFM will feature six classic silent films from France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Spain and the United Kingdom, as well as nine locally produced short films, all accompanied by original musical scores from local bands and musicians.

The 15th edition is presented by the Japan Foundation, Manila; the Embassy of Italy with the Philippine Italian Association; Instituto Cervantes; British Council in the Philippines; Goethe-institut Philippinen; the Embassy of France; and the Film Development Council of the Philippines (FDCP). The program is screened online via the FDCP channel (fdcpchannel.ph/isffm2021).

Reimagining

This year鈥檚 theme is 鈥渞eimagining the past with the present,鈥?reported FDCP chair Liza Di帽o.

鈥淲e want to make sure that silent films will not only make a comeback, but will also remain part of world cinema,鈥?she pointed out.

Ben Suzuki, director of the Japan Foundation, Manila, agreed. He emphasized the importance of continuing the ISFFM, which is the oldest silent film festival in Southeast Asia. In fact, Suzuki鈥檚 team hosted the invitational opening ceremony held on Wednesday at the newly renovated Manila Metropolitan Theater, considered Manila鈥檚 architectural Art Deco gem built in the midst of the Philippine 鈥淪ilent era.鈥?
鈥淎fter passing through a long, dark tunnel as we fought COVID-19, we are now about to enter the next stage of new normal,鈥?said Suzuki. 鈥淲e believe that the hybrid format will reignite the interest in the Philippines for creative gatherings.鈥?
Suzuki said Japan brought 鈥渙ne of its most important silent films,鈥?titled 鈥淥rochi鈥?(Serpent), a 1925 action film by Futagawa Buntar艒, with live scoring by the Munimuni band.

鈥淚t features the best sword fighting in the history of Japanese cinema. It brought a revolutionary change in the genre,鈥?he beamed.

ADVERTISEMENT

Instituto Cervantes yesterday screened Jos茅 Buchs鈥?1922 film 鈥淐arceleras,鈥?which was followed by a first panel discussion on 鈥淗ow to Watch a Silent Movie,鈥?featuring speakers from Spain, Italy and Japan. The Philippine-Italian Association concluded the day with a screening of the Giulio Antamoro鈥檚 鈥淧inocchio鈥?(1911).

Connected to PH identity

鈥淔ilipinos love cinema not just for entertainment but also for history. In many aspects, cinema is very much connected to the identity of the Philippines as a nation,鈥?said Javier Galv谩n, director of Instituto Cervantes. 鈥淲e are very happy to be part of this movement. For me, the love for silent films is a form of brotherhood in culture.鈥?
Today, the British Council in the Philippines will screen 鈥淒r. Wise on Influenza鈥?(1919). Goethe-institut Philippinen concludes the day with the screening of Paul Leni and Leo Birinski鈥檚 鈥淒as Wachsfigurenkabinett鈥?(The Waxworks, 1924).

On Nov. 27, the Embassy of France, led by Macalintal, will screen 鈥淭he Foreman.鈥?This is followed by another screening of Buntar艒鈥檚 鈥淥rochi,鈥?hosted by the Japan Foundation, Manila.

From Nov. 28 to 30, all films will be available 鈥渙n-demand鈥?on the FDCP channel. Meanwhile, Dec. 1 to 3 will be dedicated to the screening of the nine short films produced with the very first edition of FDCP鈥檚 Mit Out Sound International Silent Film Competition.

The following are the nine silent short film entries: Sari Katharyn鈥檚 鈥淎ng Tatlong Hambog,鈥?EJ Gagui and Marienel Calma鈥檚 鈥淚ng Tianak,鈥?Vahn Leinard C. Pascual鈥檚 鈥淎lingasngas Ng Mga Kuliglig,鈥?Racquel De Guzman Morilla鈥檚 鈥淎ng Pagsuyo sa Paru-Paro ng Gabi,鈥?Gabriela Serrano鈥檚 鈥淒ikit,鈥?Kate Torralba and Jopie Sanchez鈥檚 鈥淗a-Ha-Hambog,鈥?Hector Barretto Calma鈥檚 鈥淚 Need More Than Tofu and Other Vegetables,鈥?Nikolas Red鈥檚 鈥淧utol鈥?(The Cut), and Jose Carlos Soliongco鈥檚 鈥淎ng Pagdadalaga ng Dalagang Bukid.鈥?The ISFFM 2021 will culminate with a closing night ceremony, and the awarding for the best productions of the Mit Out Sound competition. INQ

Visit facebook.com/InternationalSilentFilmFestivalManila.

INQUIRER.net wants to hear from you! Take part in our reader survey and help us be better. Click on this image to answer.

Your subscription could not be saved. Please try again. Your subscription has been successful. Subscribe to our daily newsletter SIGN ME UP

Read Next"
"Good news for everyone! MCAD is extending the first solo exhibition of Haegue Yang in the Philippines until 31 March. The world-renowned Korean artist lives and works between Seoul and Berlin and is one of the most widely shown artists of her generation. Her distinct style of conceptual language interwoven with aesthetic vocabulary made her one of the must-see artists of Asian descent in the world.

The title of the exhibition, ""The Cone of Concern"", refers to a graphic tool for weather forecasting which specifically traces the path of an oncoming storm or tropical depression. This system built to predict the path of a typhoon presents how the human will attempts to confront the nature of natural phenomena. The artistic proposal in the midst of this concept is to draw out the metaphoric towards the notion of solidarity amongst those facing difficult circumstances, and with human imagination, understand our very own condition in the universe. Her interest in phenomena foregrounds the exhibition, placing a complex layer of objects鈥攚oven anthropomorphic sculptures, light sculptures, rotating sound bells, whirlwind-derived structures, textile canopies and sound elements鈥攁gainst a lenticular print backdrop of a digitally altered meteorological image.

""Haegue Yang: The Cone of Concern"" is generously supported by the Goethe-institut Philippinen, the Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism of Korea, Korea Arts Management Service, Fund for Korean Art Abroad, Hyundai Card and IFA (Institut f眉r Auslandsbeziehungen), and produced in collaboration with S.C. Vizcarra.

Click here to book an Online Tour or Private Visit

Moreover, check out also MCAD's upcoming additions to its online public programs: Manuel Dacanay's Upcycling Domestic Objects workshop and the Weaving Vitality: A Workshop on Basic Handloom Weaving with the Philippine Textile Research Institute, both inspired by the Haegue Yang exhibition."
"Part III

Prior to the promulgation by the SEC of the original Code of Corporate Governance, corporate governance literature abounded with championing the 鈥淢aximization of Shareholders Value鈥?against the 鈥淪takeholders Theory鈥?and 鈥淐SR,鈥?on the primary grounds that: (a) to use corporate resources for certain segments of the public would be contrary to the fiduciary duties of the Board and Management to employ corporate assets for the benefit of stockholders who are clearly the legal beneficiaries of such relationship of trust; and (b) that both the latter doctrines did not provide a proper 鈥渆quilibrium鈥?upon which regulating agencies and the constituencies entitled to benefit could determine whether the Board and Management were properly complying with their fiduciary duties.

In 2000, the Securities Regulation Code (SRC) expanded the corporate governance regime in publicly held companies, as it began to expand the duties of transparency, responsibility and accountability beyond the realm of stockholders, but included the members of the public who held all forms of 鈥渟ecurities鈥?in such companies. The SRC also formally instituted the system of Independent Directors, who would be elected into the Boards of such companies essentially to represent public interests, exercising business judgment 鈥渋ndependent鈥?of directors who represented the controlling stockholders.

It would be imprudent to conclude that the SRC formally instituted the 鈥淪takeholders Theory鈥?in publicly held corporations, for indeed the standing of 鈥渃onstituencies鈥?was expanded to include only creditors who held the debt-securities issued by said covered corporations. There is no mention under the SRC of owing duties of transparency, accountability or responsibility to stakeholders beyond the members of the public who held the equity and debt securities issued by said covered corporations.

Even independent directors, who in theory were meant to represent the public interests, were not formally mandated to represent the interest of stakeholders other than the stockholders and debt-security holders of the covered corporation. Moreover, aside from disclosure obligations required under the SRC, the duties and obligations of directors of publicly held corporations continued to be governed by the Corporation Code, which by its legal structure provides for the 鈥淢aximization of profits鈥?as the primary duty of the Board and Management.

Chronologically, it was the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP), through the exercise of its quasi-legislative powers in 2001, that introduced formally the 鈥淪takeholders Theory鈥?to the Philippine banking industry when it promulgated a series of memorandum circulars beginning with BSP Memorandum Circular No. 283, s. 2001, where it provided that 鈥?
The position of a bank/quasi-bank/trust entity director is a position of trust. A director assumes certain responsibilities to different constituencies or stakeholders (e.g. the bank/quasi-bank/trust entity itself, its stockholders, its depositors and other creditors, its management and employees, and the public at large). These constituencies or stakeholders have the right to expect that the institution is being run in a prudent and sound manner.

It should be noted that the formal regulatory adoption of the 鈥淪takeholders Theory鈥?into the banking industry by BSP was preceded by jurisprudential development of the theory under the aegis of our Supreme Court, which held that the banking industry is vested with public interests, and that consequently the degree of diligence that must be exercised by the banks and their officers should be more than just the diligence of a prudent person but must be of the highest form of diligence (extraordinary diligence) and recognized that bank directors and officers owed a fiduciary duty of diligence not only to depositors (i.e., creditors), but in all their dealings with the public.

In other words, the formal introduction of the 鈥淪takeholders Theory鈥?into the banking industry by BSP operated within a regulatory framework that has already evolved through the various decisions of the Supreme Court already providing for the hierarchical resolution of the fiduciary duties of diligence that is owed by banking institutions to their various stakeholders, i.e., stockholders, depositors, borrowers and other members of the public that they deal with.

In 2002, the SEC formally adopted into the realm 鈥減ublicly held companies鈥?the 鈥淪takeholders Theory鈥?under the original Code of Corporate Governance, through:

鈥?Formally defining 鈥淐orporate Governance鈥?as 鈥渁 system whereby shareholders, creditors and other stakeholders of a corporation ensure that management enhances the value of the corporation as it competes in an increasingly global marketplace.

鈥?Granted legal 鈥渟takeholders鈥?standing to creditors, employees, managers, and the community who are affected by the corporate enterprise, and thereby expands considerably the constituencies to whom the Board of Directors owe certain fiduciary obligations; and

鈥?Expanded the objective of the Board of Directors from one of 鈥渕aximization of profits,鈥?itself an objective that can be gauged from a corporation鈥檚 financial statements, to 鈥渆nhancing the value of the corporation鈥?to make it more competitive in the long run, and best suited to protect the varied interests of all stakeholders.

It should be noted, however, that the original SEC Code on Corporate Governance failed to provide a 鈥渆quilibrium formula鈥?required by Boards in exercising their business judgment in situations where the conflicting interests of the stockholders and other stakeholders are to the properly addressed in the exercise of their business judgment. In fact, a close reading of the original CG Code gives an impression that the commercial success of the company was a central fiduciary responsibility owed by the Board primarily to the stockholders, and only the duty to inform how the company operations would affect other stakeholders was the primary duty owed by the Board to stakeholders other than the stockholders. To illustrate, under the original CG Code, the central obligation of the Board 鈥渢o foster the long-term success of the corporation and secure its sustained competitiveness is a manner consistent with its fiduciary responsibility,鈥?was to be exercise for 鈥渢he best interest of the corporation and its shareholders,鈥?without referring to other stakeholders. In fact, the original CG Code provided for a parallel, but separate communication policies between stockholders on one hand, and other stakeholders on the other, thus:

iv. Identify the corporation鈥檚 major and other stakeholders and formulate a clear policy on communicating or relating with them accurately, effectively and sufficiently. There must be an accounting rendered to them regularly in order to serve their legitimate interests.

Likewise, an investor relations program that reaches out to all shareholders and fully informs them of corporate activities should be developed. As a best practice, the chief financial officer or CEO should have oversight of this program and should actively participate in public activities.

When it came to the area of 鈥淎ccountability and Audit,鈥?the original CG Code limits their application to the stockholders, thus: 鈥淭he Board is primarily accountable to the shareholders and Management is primarily accountable to the Board. The Board should provide the shareholders with a balanced and understandable assessment of the corporation鈥檚 performance, position and prospects on a quarterly basis. x x x 鈥?
Indeed, the original CG Code reiterates and expands on the rights of stockholders as already provided for in the Corporation Code, in specific areas such as voting rights, preemptive right, power of inspection, right to information, right to dividends, appraisal right, etc., and does not define clearly what may be the rights of the other stakeholders that it has recognized in defining the term 鈥渃orporate governance.鈥?It did not provide for a listing of what rights stakeholders other than stockholders were entitled to demand from the Board and Management of publicly held companies in the exercise of their fiduciary duties.

The lack in SEC鈥檚 original Code of Corporate Governance (SEC Memo Circular No. 2, s. 2002) of a clear delineation of what particularly are the metes and bounds of a director鈥檚 fiduciary obligations to stakeholders other than stockholders, and what would be the proper resolution when the legitimate interests of the various stakeholders collided with one other, had brought much uncertainty in corporate governance practice in publicly held companies. Unfortunately, before the sphere of public companies had been able to work out developing the hierarchical system of evaluating the legitimate interests of the stockholders and other stakeholders in the realm of publicly held companies, the SEC pulled the plug on 鈥淪takeholders Theory鈥?when it issued in SEC Memo Circular No. 6, s. 2009, deleting all provisions in the original CG Code having to do with 鈥渟takeholders鈥?and limiting its operations to stockholders.

In the meantime, the Philippine Stock Exchange (PSE) formally adopted Corporate Governance Guidelines which placed at center stage the maximization of shareholders鈥?value as the primary obligation of the Boards of publicly listed companies, but with 鈥渄ue regard to their stakeholders.鈥?(No. 1 Guideline: Shareholder return is optimized through a sound and well-executed strategy). Under Guideline 8, the Boards of publicly listed companies are mandated to 鈥渞espect and protect the rights and interests of its employees, community, environment, and other stakeholders.鈥?In brief, therefore, the PSE CG Guidelines, did not seek to recognize a new right or standing of stakeholders of the company, but merely enjoined the Boards of publicly listed companies to 鈥済ive due regards鈥?(an ethical management guide, not a legal duty or obligation), to its stakeholders, and to respect whatever rights and interests such stakeholders have been granted, if any, under existing laws.

Under the leadership of Chairperson Teresita J. Herbosa, the SEC in 2014 reinstated the stakeholder provisions of the original CG Code under SEC Memo Circular No. 9, s. 2014. However, the reinstatement of the 鈥淪takeholders Theory鈥?for publicly held companies merely reignited the long-drawn debate on what under such corporate governance regime is the equilibrium formula that should be relied upon by the Board and Management to determine whether the corporate resolution or decision they arrive at fulfills their fiduciary duties to the various stakeholders of the company: How can they determine that by seeking the maximization of shareholders鈥?value, which is their primary duty when serving a publicly listed company, they do not undermine the conflicting or opposing interests of other stakeholders?

During those debates, the writer had always proposed that responsible Boards for publicly held companies did not have to fear the 鈥渓ack of equilibrium鈥?feature of the 鈥淪takeholders Theory,鈥?since the original CG Code itself had provided the key to allow the Board of each publicly held company the ability to answer to the such query. It will be recalled that the original CG Code made it mandatory for covered corporations to adopt formally their company manual of corporate governance to be formally approved by the SEC.

The key provision in the original CG Code, which this writer thought was a stroke of genius, was the one which mandated that the Board of covered corporations shall 鈥淚dentify the corporation鈥檚 major and other stakeholders and formulate a clear policy of communicating or relating with them accurately, effectively and sufficiently. There must be an accounting rendered to them regularly in order to serve their legitimate interests.鈥?Therefore, the Board of every publicly held company had the legal ability to determine in the provisions of its manual of corporate governance, who the stakeholders of the company are, and provide for their 鈥渓egitimate interests,鈥?and finally to then work out in the manual provisions the hierarchical placement of such legitimate interests.

The SEC recognized under the original CG Code, that it is the Board of publicly held companies, rather than for the SEC, which are in a better position to determine who the various stakeholders of the company are, their legitimate interests, and to work out a hierarchical valuation of their varying, if not conflicting, interests. Such company-centered formulation of the implementation of 鈥淪takeholders Theory鈥?within the company would form an integral part of the company charter once the manual is formally approved by the SEC.

Unfortunately, when the 鈥淪takeholders Theory鈥?was reinstated in the Revised Code of Corporate Governance, SEC Memo Circular No. 9, s. 2014, provided for a watered-down version of the stakeholders-identification clause which read: 鈥淚dentify the corporation鈥檚 stakeholders community in which the corporation operates or are directly affected by its operations, and formulate a clear policy of accurate, timely and effective communication with them.鈥?Under the present version, the Revised CG Code merely recognizes that stakeholders are entitled to only 鈥渁 clear accurate, timely and effective communication鈥?of matters of corporate affairs that affect them. This is the same situation under the PSE Guidelines which mandates that in pursuing company affairs, the proprietary interests of stockholders is foremost in the exercise of business judgment, but only with 鈥渄ue regards鈥?to the interests of other stakeholders. In fact, under Article 5 on 鈥淎ccountability and Audit鈥?section of the Revised CG Code, it is expressly provided that 鈥淭he board is primarily accountable to the stockholders,鈥?without any reference at all to other stakeholders.

With the recent promulgation of the CG Code for PLCs, the question that must be answered is 鈥淲hat is the corporate governance doctrine that prevails under the Code of Corporate Governance for Publicly Listed Companies?鈥?The brief answer is: A hybrid system of corporate governance that has put together the best features of the 鈥淒octrines Maximization of Shareholders鈥?Value,鈥?鈥淪takeholders Theory,鈥?and the 鈥淐SR Doctrine.鈥?
The article reflects the personal opinion of the author and does not reflect the official stand of the Management Association of the Philippines or the M.A.P.

Cesar L. Villanueva is a member of the Management Association of the Philippines (M.A.P.), the former Chair of the Governance Commission for GOCCs and the Founding Partner of the Villanueva Gabionza & Dy Law Offices.

cvillanueva@vgslaw.com

map@map.org.ph

http://map.org.ph"
"In almost all cases, many workers don鈥檛 have the right motivation and cannot contribute their share of group work. There will always be fast-trackers, average players, and mediocre contributors in a team. How would you ensure that all of them contribute positively to group work? 鈥?All Encompassing.

When things go wrong, it鈥檚 natural for many of us to look at the direction of mediocre members of a team. Is it the right thing to do? Maybe. But the truth of the matter is 鈥?you only have to revisit your organizational 鈥渂ell curve鈥?to discover that you can do more, if you focus your attention on those who occupy the middle or about 80% of the total workforce.

They鈥檙e called the average workers or B players whom you can easily manage by giving them the right direction and proper motivation. With constant attention with the active help of their line supervisors and managers, average workers will be able to accomplish something of value to the organization.

It鈥檚 simple math. Imagine your organization has 100 workers. There will always be a top 10 (A players) who will do their best even in the absence of close supervision. Usually, they take care of themselves as long as the targets and standards are clear. Even a stupid manager can handle them and vice versa. They will perform up to their full potential for so many reasons, many of which are known only to the incumbents.

On the other hand, there will be a bottom 10 (C players). Regardless of what management does, they will do nothing to improve their performance short of avoiding being kicked out of their jobs. They鈥檙e there to waste management time. And they鈥檙e not expected to stay long in the company for long. They鈥檙e a bunch of incurables as they may have been suffering from personal problems which management can鈥檛 solve.

Simply put, the bottom 10 workers are disengaged and are biding their time to go elsewhere. You don鈥檛 have to resort to the extreme sanction (firing) as they will self-destruct in due time, unless they commit a major offense against the company or its employees sooner than you expect.

Therefore, it鈥檚 a matter of focusing your attention, effort, and time to the average 80 workers (B players). You can benefit a lot if you can change the ways of these middle-of-the-road workers with the help of their line supervisors and managers, assuming of course, that they have what it takes.

The B players could benefit a lot from management monitoring and coaching. If you do just that, you can achieve more than if you focused your attention on the C players. Doing this will help generate worker acceptance of change, which will go a long way toward guaranteeing its successful implementation. They may not be easy. But what I鈥檓 saying is 鈥?they鈥檙e worth a try.

Now, here are some considerations when you plan to make changes with your B players:

One, get all workers and their managers to be involved in performance management planning. The more people, the better as they may be able to pinpoint problems that we鈥檙e not thought about before. It is easier said than done, but not exactly impossible, even when you have more than 2,000 workers. This can be easy, if you have a periodic employee survey that tells you what鈥檚 wrong with the company鈥檚 policy. It can also be supplemented with other means like town hall meetings and other similar strategies.

Two, ensure a continuing line of communication with all employees. This covers all A, B, and C players. This is to make sure that your management is not seen as favoring only the fast-trackers and the average players. Rely on the feedback of everyone. Sometimes, you can get valid input from C players. And if those issues are corrected, you鈥檒l be surprised at how they will change for the better. But again, 10% is 10%. Still, don鈥檛 forget the B players who comprise of the majority of the workforce.

Three, identify the root cause or causes of employee resistance, if any. Sometimes, it boils down to certain management policies that are more foolish than rational. This happens when management is overcome by its command-and-control mentality that it creates layers and layers of constricting measures. You will only know this if you encourage the people to express their feelings in an objective manner. Otherwise, people go and create a situation where the workers will resort to the grapevine to express their feelings.

Management鈥檚 own attitude toward change will help either to sell or sink a program. This happens with change that comes from top management. Solutions may appear to be easy on the surface, but the task of implementing change is loaded with problems that only people managers with an open mind can overcome.

Of course, management can鈥檛 do all of these. It must rely on the participation of their line supervisors and managers. Just telling all A, B, and C workers won鈥檛 get the best results. It must be coursed through their line leaders who are the first line of offense and defense for top management.

ELBONOMICS: Individually, we are poor. Together, we are rich.

elbonomics@gmail.com"
"By Susan Claire Agbayani

UNLIKE PREVIOUS years when the Philippines鈥?contribution to the International Silent Film Festival (ISFF) were experimental films, this year it will be a 37-minute documentary filmed in 1913 on the Cordilleran Kalinga tribe titled Native Life in the Philippines. It will open the 13th ISFF at SM Aura in Taguig on Aug. 30.

The documentary, which had been shown around the world, was directed by the controversial Dean C. Worcester, an American zoologist and photographer who was also a member of the Philippine Commission. His ethnographic photographs helped shape public opinion in the United States for American colonization.

Film scholar and archivist Teddy Co, chair of the film commission of the National Commission for Culture and the Arts (NCCA) selected the documentary for presentation at this year鈥檚 ISFF.

As usual during the ISFF, the films will be accompanied by live music, and for Native Life in the Philippines, the Munimuni band was chosen to do the live score.

鈥淲e鈥檝e always had a heart to see different art forms coming together; this time, film and music. We鈥檙e a Filipino band (that plays) Filipino songs with Filipino lyrics. We鈥檙e excited to see how it comes together: the montage of the different tribal practices, then our music. Our goal is to complement the message of the film, and highlight Filipino culture through it,鈥?said Munimuni鈥檚 guitarist/vocalist TJ de Ocampo at a press conference on the ISFF at the Samsung Hall of SM Aura.

Representatives of the Film Development Council of the Philippines (FDCP) this year took up on the suggestion to have Munimuni do the live score. 鈥淲e wanted to introduce something new. We checked Munimuni鈥檚 Spotify and YouTube accounts, and their recent 鈥楰ulayan Natin鈥?music video. The montage part of it is similar to what we wanted to have in our entry this year,鈥?said Jo Andrew Torlao, Festivals Coordinator of FDCP.

At 1 p.m. on Aug. 31, Professor Nick Deocampo of the University of the Philippines will give a lecture on 鈥淭he Beginnings of Cinema in Asia.鈥?According to the festival鈥檚 program, 鈥淭his lecture on early cinema unpacks the nature of the first motion pictures that reached the region, the cinematic practices that accompanied their arrival, and the reception that greeted their public exhibition. Giving emphasis on the Philippines, discussion will cover how film interacted with the Spanish and American colonial cultures that allowed cinema to become 鈥榥ative.鈥?Recalling how cinema first started opens an opportunity to revisit one of cinema鈥檚 most forgotten chapters.鈥?
LOST AND FOUND GERMAN FILM

The German film Von Morgen Bis Mitternachts (From Morn to Midnight, 1921) by Karlheinz Martin, which was 鈥渃onsidered lost in the 1920s, found in 1959 (at the Tokyo National Film Center), and played again in 1963,鈥?will be screened at 4 p.m. on Sept, 1. 鈥淭his is the most radically expressionist film of the 1920s 鈥?at least 鈥?the one with an existing copy. It is the only film I think that we鈥檙e showing that was preserved in Japan,鈥?said Goethe-institut Philippinen鈥檚 Program Coordinator Shadin Kitma.

New musical ensemble Anima Tierra will play the live score for the film. 鈥淲e chose this group because they鈥檙e not set, as compared to a four-piece band where there鈥檚 a guitar, bass, drum set. They鈥檙e more free in their selection of instruments 鈥?which is more varied 鈥?and which I think would reflect an expressionist film more,鈥?said Mr. Kitma.

鈥淲e have been performing all over the world, representing Filipino indigenous music and contemporary music around the world. We have to look back to where we鈥檙e coming from, and for that, we鈥檇 been able to bring out elements from different cultures of the world 鈥?especially that which bring out the fire and the spirit 鈥?in each of the music and we incorporated that in our scoring of the film,鈥?said ensemble leader Tapati.

NEWLY RESTORED ITALIAN FILM

鈥淭his year, we鈥檒l continue on the road we took together with the Cinematheque of Bologna, who is providing us with a beautiful film, Augusto Genia鈥檚 L鈥橭nesta del Peccato (The Wife He Neglected, 1918) restored last year or two years ago. We will have an Italian musician, Step&No, who will lead the ensemble The Pocket Orchestra,鈥?said Fil-Italian Association鈥檚 general manager Alessandro Milani. The film will be screened at 8:30 p.m. on Aug. 31.

Stefan&No said that it was fairly easy for him to work on the score because 鈥渢he film is Italian, and I鈥檓 Italian.鈥?He noted that 鈥渨e share a fascination for drama鈥?with Filipino musicians.鈥?
JAPANESE DRAMA

While Orizuru Osen director Kenji Mizoguchi is well known, unfortunately, 鈥渕any of his films are not available now, especially for the silent ones, 鈥漵aid Japan Foundation Manila (JFM) Director Hiroaki Uesugi.

鈥淲e wanted to have a different sound; and at the same time, we wanted to explore talents from the region. We wanted to give opportunities for regional artists to be presented as well in Manila-centered events or activities,鈥?said JFM鈥檚 Roland Samson.

Live scoring Orizuru Osen (The Downfall of Osen, 1935) is Mindanao-based band Kaduma ni Karol (鈥渃ompanion of Carol鈥?in Higaonon), a group headed by former Pinikpikan vocalist Carol, 鈥渢he chant queen.鈥?It will be screened at 3 pm. on Aug. 31.

SPANISH FILM

Although Diego Mapa and Jay Gapasin have performed at the ISFF previously with other bands (Pedicab, Kapitan Kulam, and the Radioactive Sago Project), this is the first time they鈥檙e performing as Tarsius, 鈥渁n electronic band with live instrumentation,鈥?said Mr. Mapa during the press conference.

They are scoring Carlos Fernandez Cuenca鈥檚 Es Mi Hombre (He鈥檚 My Man, 1927), which will be screened at 5:30 p.m. on Aug. 31.

Instituto Cervantes鈥?Jose Fons said during the press conference that Tarsius has performed at the Spanish cultural center鈥檚 events and in Spain as well.

鈥淚 hope people would look forward to our curation of music for this film. It will definitely not be taken from modern top 40s or anything familiar, but from well-selected tracks. Hopefully educational, but true to the film experience of different genres. We wanted to be more true to the emotions of the film; and not go overboard. We wanted to do something different compared to what we鈥檝e done before with our other respective bands,鈥?Mr. Mapa said.

THE CLOSING FILM

The movies that have been preserved so far in Austria鈥檚 film archive 鈥渉aven鈥檛 been welcoming to all types of audiences,鈥?noted Zeh Bombais, Press and Cultural Attache of the Austrian Embassy. 鈥淲e鈥檝e always shown more serious films for 鈥榤ature audiences.鈥欌€?So this year, they wanted to give the ISFF viewers 鈥渁 family friendly and bonding experience,鈥?where one can bring younger siblings and even parents to watch.

鈥淲e really wanted to bring the two eras together: the silent film and contemporary Filipino musicians. Our film, Hans Berger and Ladislaus Tuszynski鈥檚 Kalif Storch (1924) is set in Baghdad, with the same time, same setting as Aladdin, and with glamorous costumes and extravagant setup. We close the ISFF on Sept. 1, 7:30 p.m. with the story of magic, romance and comedy. It鈥檚 only fitting to have a band that could match that quirkiness and extravagance in their performance. That鈥檚 exactly how we think we see the music of Tanya Markova,鈥?she said.

鈥淲e give the artists the liberty to interpret the film how they see fit. We鈥檙e open to the films being explored in various different ways that maybe has not been explored in Austria yet. And that鈥檚 the beauty of the film played in Manila.鈥?
Tanya Markova, which is known for its references to pop culture and folklore, is a very 鈥渧isual鈥?band known for gimmicks like putting on makeup and wearing costumes while performing 鈥?often eclipsing their 鈥渟onic capabilities鈥?鈥?admitted band member John Paul 鈥淛apo鈥?Anareta. But this silent film fest will finally showcase their abilities in this department.

鈥淲e鈥檙e going to add depth and some color to the black and white film. People can expect a lot of improve and surprising stuff,鈥?Mr. Anareta said.

The 13th Silent Film Festival runs from Aug. 30 to Sept. 1. Admission is free, on a first-come, first-served basis. For more information, check their Facebook page at: https://www.facebook.com/events/2248725038558888/"
"THE longest-running arts and technology festival in the Philippines concludes its decade-long run with manifold events in multiple locations across Metro Manila, starting today, October 15, until October 28.

WSK Festival of the Recently Possible鈥攐r WSK, pronounced as wasak, the Filipino word for 鈥渟hatter鈥濃€攊s dedicated to contemporary electronic, digital and experimental art; a 鈥渉aven for unorthodox music tastes.鈥?The festival is inspired by the motto 鈥淎rt is not a mirror, it is a hammer,鈥?and targets to blur, deconstruct, and reimagine the preconceived notions of how art, culture and technology diverge, merge, and work together.

鈥淲e want to create a space of non-ordinary reality and transport the audience there,鈥?WSK Founder Tengal Drilon said. 鈥淎rt does that, and music is one of the mediums.鈥?
WSK was launched in 2010 as Fete de la Wasaque, a parody of the annual music festival of French tradition, Fete de la Musique. The event eventually found its own identity and crowd, and in 2013, was rebranded into its current form that presents a series of concerts, residencies, hacklabs, exhibitions, workshops, forums and open art science projects.

Organized by Sabaw Media Art Kitchen, a not-for-profit artist-run initiative committed to curatorial and research-based production toward the imminent intersections of art and technology, the festival primarily runs on a Do-It-Yourself and Do-It-Together ethic, and is mostly self-funded, with partial funding support from cultural organizations, such as the Japan Foundation Asia Center under the Grant Program for Promotion of Cultural Collaboration.

This year, WSK X brings wider global

collaboration through a joint program with Nusasonic, a creative collaboration between like-minded organizations across the globe. The multiyear project is designed to support artists in their practice, strengthen local networks, encourage cross-border and intercultural cooperation, and contribute to broadening the understanding of contemporary sound practices, not only within the Southeast Asian region but also with Europe.

鈥淏ridging aural cultures across Europe and Southeast Asia in one huge festival is impossible to do alone,鈥?Drilon said. 鈥淲SK has been doing various cultural initiatives for a decade now, but with the help of our network from Nusasonic, we can do more ambitious projects from this year and beyond.鈥?
Behind Nusasonic are Yes No Klub from Yogyakarta, WSK Festival of The Recently Possible from Manila, Playfreely/BlackKaji from Singapore, and CTM Festival from Berlin. The project is an initiative of Goethe-institut Southeast Asia.

鈥淚 am excited to see how people will resonate with the international contributions,鈥?Dr. Ulrich Nowak, director and head of Cultural Programs for Goethe-institut Southeast Asia, said during the WSK X press conference at Arete in Ateneo de Manila University.

Aside from discussing the particulars of the upcoming festival, a couple of experimental music performances and a workshop were also presented during the media event.

One German student who is on a two-month residency in the Philippines, performed with a tinkered telephone that played sonic waves and feedback noises. There was an immersive sound workshop as well that welcomed guests to toy with a makeshift sound table, which consisted of everyday items, including bowls, chopsticks, door-stopper spring, screw driver and a ruler.

WSK X kicks off today with Stay: Sine Wave Orchestra Exhibition, an interactive sound exhibition by Sine Wave Orchestra from Japan. Stay welcomes guests to interact with different sound devices in the space, making them the artist of the show. The event takes place at Arete, and is open to the public.

Drilon said WSK X is divided into two parts. The first half deals more with education programs, such as workshops, public talks and symposiums. One of these is MusicMakers Hacklab, wherein practitioners create, play and find new ways of exploring the current and future potentials that lie in interfacing music with technology and other fields of practice. The event runs from October 16 to 23.

Meanwhile, the second half of WSK X focuses on concerts, outdoor performances, club nights, collaboration and special programs. Among these is Floaters Stage, happening on October 26. The event rolls out simultaneous street performances on the streets of Poblacion in Makati City.

According to Drilon, this year鈥檚 WSK Festival may be its final iteration. In pursuit of presenting 鈥渕eaningful experiences,鈥?he said they want to end the decade with the familiar festival format and move forward with something that鈥檚 different.

鈥淚n the face of biennales and huge art spectacles, we always ask if our festival still engages people in a meaningful way,鈥?he said. 鈥淲e鈥檙e thinking maybe we should change the format, while still continuing international-based exchanges. We still don鈥檛 know the answer, but we definitely seek more lasting social impact in our programming.鈥?
Drilon, however, made it clear that the goal for WSK is to continue: 鈥淲e鈥檙e shifting to the more educational aspect and the active engagements. Our workshops and hacklabs are the highlight because it is where the public can learn and engage in an equal level, even allowing their art to be presented for the first time.鈥?
Your Weekend Guide (November 29"
"

NEWS Your article is being updated or not found. Please refresh after a moment"
"Kerstin Roy (seated) with students at the German language school, Beagle Academy, in Makati City. Private

MANILA 鈥?Kerstin Roy is sitting on a chair at the Beagle Academy. She has one leg elevated; her calf is covered by a thick bandage, she tells me on the phone.

The native of Cottbus, a city in East Germany near the Polish border, was lucky in adversity. After an accident with a motor scooter, it could have ended far worse for her leg.

鈥淭he cut after the fall was pretty deep,鈥?said the 34-year-old. She walks on crutches. They were flown in just for her because in surfing town Siargao, where she鈥檇 spent the last few weeks, there are no crutches or specialists who could have taken care of her leg. There is a touch of irony in this since Roy stands daily in front of trained nurses.

In Makati City, she teaches at the Beagle Academy, a language school specializing in teaching German to Filipino nurses. There鈥檚 great demand for it 鈥渙n both sides,鈥?said Ramon Hansmeyer, head of the school.

While more and more institutions in Germany are desperately looking for caregivers, the Philippine Nurses Association reports that there are 200,000 unemployed nurses pursuing other jobs (as of 2016). There are twice as many now, the school director reckons.

According to the Philippine Overseas Employment Agency (POEA), 92,277 nurses have left the Philippines since 2012, which translates to about 19,000 nurses leaving every year.

According to the German Federal Office for Statistics, 25,000 to 30,000 jobs in the industry are vacant in Germany at the moment.

Are these two compatible conditions? So far, Philippine nurses have emigrated to other countries, but only a few of them have come to Germany.

Starting this summer, 20 Filipinos (13 women and seven men) are expected to occupy new positions in the hospital in Brandenburg an der Havel, a city in the Federal state of Brandenburg where nursing staff is urgently needed. Until then, it鈥檚 a long, arduous process for the women and men.

Students at the German language school Beagle Academy. Jeffrey Hernaez

Back in Manila, on the 17th floor of a skyscraper in Makati City, Filipino nurses are sitting at round tables. They gaze spellbound at their tablets, converse, but not in Tagalog. Instead, they are trying to use German. Often, English words and sentences are interjected. There鈥檚 a glass on one of the tables that鈥檚 half-filled with Philippine pesos.

Beagle Academy head director Ramon Hansmeyer (left) with another language teacher, Karolin Ulmer. Katrin Hartmann

鈥淎nyone who speaks Tagalog in class has to throw a little something into the collection glass,鈥?said Hansmeyer.

It seems like a tough discipline, but the reason is simple. The adult students spend up to nine hours together in a confined space. They often drop back into their mother tongue. 鈥淏ut anyone who wants to learn another language knows exactly how important it is to stick with it.鈥?
The seven teachers at the language school try to make their lessons as creative as possible. During the eight-month intensive course, the Filipino nurses not only receive classroom lessons. The classes are livened up in the so-called learning lab, where the focus is on listening exercises, games, and other interactive teaching methods.

Preparation for a life abroad? This is where Filipino nurses can learn German. At the #BeagleAcademy in #MakatiCity is fun on the daily agenda. #manila #Philippines pic.twitter.com/bOOaHKBfz7 鈥?Kat_Hartmann (@KatrinHartmann7) March 29, 2019

From time to time, the song 鈥淲eiss der Geier鈥?(God only knows) by German Folksinger Wolfgang Petry will sound loudly down the corridor. 鈥淔ilipinos are born entertainers,鈥?said Roy. 鈥淭hey love karaoke and are always warm and happy. Like so much else in their lives, they have a sense of humor about their day.鈥?


The interactive learning approach is bearing fruit. Currently, about 120 nurses are being taught at the school 鈥?with an upward trend 鈥?and another school is already planned in Romblon.

Two-thirds of the students do not only come from Luzon, but also from Visayas and Mindanao.

鈥淭he need is great,鈥?said school director Hansmeyer, who decided five years ago to transform his Paderborn translation agency into something else. The 43-year-old initially tried Romania in East Europe, but establishing a language school there didn鈥檛 work out for him.

In his experience, family members who took jobs abroad were rejected at home. 鈥淭hey were put under a lot of pressure, were sometimes even disowned by their families,鈥?he said. Of course, they weren鈥檛 very motivated by that.

In the Philippines, he鈥檚 experienced the complete opposite. Filipinos are 鈥渢ender, loving, and caring 鈥?TLC,鈥?said Hansmeyer 鈥?and thus a godsend for the German nursing industry. Filipinos who work overseas have been celebrated as heroes across the country for about the past 60 years. Taxis are emblazoned with advertisements for websites claiming to pave the way to work abroad. Laughing faces flicker from giant billboards, faces saying that everyone can take the lucky step. Everyone?

Beagle Academy student Johanna Lei Bayron. Jeffrey Hernaez

鈥淎ctually, I wanted to be a flight attendant,鈥?said Johanna Lei Bayron. A student at the Beagle Academy, she passed her exam and is now waiting for her visa to go to Germany. 鈥淢y father is a doctor. He wanted me to go into the medical field.鈥?
The 26-year-old and her family agreed that she should train as a nurse, and that involved a four-year training course at her expense. To be able to work in Germany with that degree, the nurses need to gain additional years of professional experience and complete a German course. She finished hers a few months ago.

Now, Bayron is still waiting for her visa. She is supposed to work in a hospital in Schleswig-Holstein, a Federal State in the north of Germany. She heard that life in Germany is good, but still, she鈥檚 nervous.

鈥淚 have a friend in Hannover who also works at a hospital there,鈥?she said. She talks and chats regularly in a Facebook group with other nurses who already work and live in Germany.

The long waiting period has been criticized several times by German hospitals and other sides involved. Ramon Hansmeyer and Kerstin Roy also notice the consequences of the delay. 鈥淚n the meantime, the students often forget what they鈥檝e learned from us,鈥?said Hansmeyer. This is problematic, because the nurses do not only need to cope with the foreign culture, but also with their new job as quickly as possible.

It鈥檚 a process that requires patience and a sense of teamwork, said Roy. She herself knows what it鈥檚 like to settle in a foreign country. She has been living in the Philippines for five years now 鈥?out of love and because she was looking for something new.

鈥淚 had fallen in love not only with my boyfriend, but also with the country and the people.鈥?The German has found her place and hopes that her students have the same experience in her home country."
"Pinoys to the World concert

THE Philippine Montessori Center Instrumental Ensemble (PMCIE) continues its journey as global Filipino musical ambassadors with Pinoys to the World: A Celebration of Filipino Musical Artistry, a concert series that began in the Philippines in February this year and will culminate in a string of performances in New York City, including a gala concert at the world-famous Carnegie Hall on May 31. The PMCIE will be accompanied by The Nightingales, a duo of former soprano soloists of the renowned Philippine Madrigal Singers. A send-off concert will be held at the Meralco Theater on May 3. For tickets, contact Preciouse Delicana at 911-4838 or 0917-657-6133.

The Dresser

REPERTORY Philippines presents The Dresser, a Ronald Harwood play set during the bombing of London in World War II as a a touring theater company prepares for production of King Lear. Sir, a tormented but brilliant thespian, arrives on set in a delusional state. Norman, his loyal dresser, does all he can to ensure that the show goes on. The play, directed by Loy Arcenas, stars Audie Gemora, Teroy Guzman, Jeremy Domingo, Tami Monsod, Robbie Guevara, and Justine Narciso. There are performances on weekends from May 3 to 26, with 3:30 and 8 p.m. performances at Onstage Theater, Greenbelt Mall 1, Paseo de Roxas St., Makati. Tickets are P1,200 and P1,500, are available through TicketWorld (891-9999, www.ticketworld.com.ph) and at the gate.

Wim Wenders films

THE Goethe-institut presents the works of the acclaimed German filmmaker Wim Wenders who, along with Herzog and Fassbinder, was a principal member of the New German Cinema of the 1970s. Nine award-winning Wim Wenders feature films and a documentary will be screened for free every weekend at 4 p.m. until May 26 at the Cinematheque Centre Manila. To be screend this weekend are Alice in the Cities on May 4 and In the Course of Time on May 5. Admission is free on a first-come, first-served basis. There will also be subsequent screenings in the Cinematheque Centre in Davao from June 3 to June 30. Details will be announced soon. For more information about the Wim Wenders Retrospective, visit www.goethe.de/manila.

Summer at BGC

BONIFACIO High Street will transform into a giant fitness playground that offers a variety of free active lifestyle and wellness activities on May 3 to 5. Supplement this with a healthy diet from the organic fair.

Cinco de Mayhem

THE first-ever Cinco de Mayhem Music Festival 鈥?presented by ProMedia Productions 鈥?will be held on May 4 at the Vista Mall Daang Hari Open Grounds. Gates open at 1 p.m., program starts at 2 p.m. CDM will be headlined by local performers James Reid and Nadine Lustre, along with the Careless Music Manila crew: Astrokidd, Massiah, King WaW, and Curtismith, together with DJs from Quest, Kiana Valenciano, Divine Smith, DJ Euric, Deuce, Nix Damn P, and MC Marga Bermudez, along with special performances from event partner, RedBull鈥檚 award-winning performers. Adding a special touch to the proceedings are conceptual artists Leeroy New and Georghanno ABenoja. New will craft a large-scale installation from bamboom neon lights, mesh, rope lights and conduits. Tickets are still available at P3,500 (VVIP), P2,000 (VIP), and P950 (Gen. Ad). For more information and for ticket inquiries, visit Cinco de Mayhem鈥檚 official website, www.cincodemayhem.com. Like and follow Cinco de Mayhem鈥檚 official social media pages on Facebook and Instagram @cincodemayhemph for real-time updates and upcoming promos.

Party with Jose Cuervo

CELEBRATE Cinco de Mayo with Jose Cuervo which is holding three parties in Metro Manila on May 4. The parties will be at Poblacion, Makati City, with select partner bars in Don Pedro and Alfonso St.; at Pop-Up in Katipunan, Quezon City; and The Island in Bonifacio Global City, Taguig. Partygoers can enjoy five shots of Jose Cuervo tequila at partner bars for P300.

Blast from the past



STARS from the 1980s Raymond Lauchengco, Gino Padilla, Jett Pangan, Lou Bonnevie, and Jam Morales will perform in a concert called Into the 鈥?0s on May 18, 8 p.m., at The Theatre at Solaire. Their repertoire includes hits from the decade, from Kenny Loggins and Prince to The Police, Sheena Easton to Spandau Ballet, Blondie to Kim Carnes, Bangles to Irene Cara, Whitney Houston to Wham, Billy Joel to Rick Astley, Kool and the Gang to Queen 鈥?and of course their own OPM hits. Tickets are availabel at Ticketworld (891-9999, www.ticketworld.com.ph)."
"Cine Europa starts screenings in Cebu City for the first time

As the biggest running film festival in the country enters its 21st year, Cine Europa will kick off for the first time this year in Cebu City on September 27 at Circa 1900, Alliance Francaise de Cebu and Ayala Center Cebu City.

Ambassador Franz Jessen of the European Union Delegation said that this new initiative came about to cater to the vibrant cultural landscape in the Visayan region.

""Cultural diplomacy is an essential aspect in nurturing the bilateral relations between the European Union and the Philippines, especially following the entry into force of the Philippines-EU Partnership and Cooperation Agreement this year,"" he said.

This year's Cine Europa film festival is organized in connection with the celebration of the European Year of Cultural Heritage in 2018.

Ambassador Jessen said that Cine Europa is one of the most effective means for the EU to reach out to the Filipino people. It is a unique way to showcase European cultural diversity in the Philippines.

Chairperson Liza Di帽o of the Film Development Council of the Philippines affirmed that the agency is pleased to continue its long-standing collaboration with the European Union and promote film diversity.

Twenty-eight movies from 16 European Union Member States (Austria, Belgium, Czech Republic, Denmark, France, Germany, Hungary, Italy, Netherlands, Poland, Romania, Slovakia, Spain, Sweden, United Kingdom) as well as Norway will be screened this year.

But these are not the only Cine Europa treats that are expected for this year. Side events will be organised, such as a poetry festival, lectures on contemporary issues by different European countries and sport activities are planned this year.

""Padyak para sa Kalikasan"" (Biking for the Environment) which has already gained a large following in Palawan is expected to jumpstart in October in Puerto Princesa city with European diplomats joining the bike tour.

Many firsts

Cine Europa 21 will for the first time feature the movie ""The Lease"" an Italian-Filipino paranormal thriller by filmmaker Paolo Bertola which is starring Ruben Maria Soriquez and Filipina actress Garie Conception, while Austria will screen short films ""Mathias,"" ""Fuddy Duddy"" and ""Wannabe"" in addition to its full-length film ""Mademoiselle Paradis (Licht).""

Cine Europa Press Screening: ""Bienvenido , Mister Marshall""

For the press screening, the featured film is the Spanish entry ""Bienvenido, Mister Marshall"" a comedy that features a village whose inhabitants are disguised as Andalusians to welcome a personality. The fun starts with the good-natured mayor who is seeking means to improve life in the village.

This black and white film has received awards and citations, including the International price of good humor, with a special mention for the scenario and for the scriptwriters (Prix international du film de la bonne humeur avec mention sp茅ciale pour le scenario) at the 1953 Cannes Film Festival.

Film Festival Opening: ""A Holy Mess""

The festival will start in Cebu with a reception on 27 September featuring the film ""A Holy Mess"" from Sweden.

The Swedish film ""A Holy Mess"" asks the question how tolerant the Swedes are. A warm comedy about the modern Swedish family and their continual struggle to ""do things correctly.""

Cine Europa Roadshow

Cine Europa can boast of the fact that it is the longest and most comprehensive film festival in the country as it takes place in nine cities in a variety of venues from theaters to malls and universities.

After Cebu, the festival's schedule is as follows:

Tacloban City 鈥?October 2 to 7

Iloilo 鈥?October 9 to 14

Leyte 鈥?October 16 to 21

Palawan 鈥?October 23 to 28

Naga City 鈥?November6 to 11

Baguio City 鈥?November 26 to December 2.

Manila 鈥?November 20 to 25, Film Development Council of the Philippines

Manila 鈥?December 7 to 16, Shangri-La Plaza

Cine Europa 21 schedule poster

The festival is presented by the EU Delegation to the Philippines and the Embassies of Austria, Belgium, Czech Republic, France, Germany, Hungary, Italy, Netherlands, Poland, Romania, Spain, Sweden and United Kingdom, as well as Alliance Francaise in Manila and in Cebu, the British Council, the Goethe-institut, Instituto Cervantes, and the Philippine Italian Association.

Cine Europa has earned a niche among film enthusiasts in the country because of its strong collaboration with local partners, including the Film Development Council of the Philippines, Arts Council of Cebu, Ayala Center in Cebu, Shangri-La Plaza, SM Corporation, the Ateneo De Naga, University of the Philippines- Visayas in Tacloban, the Visayas State University in Baybay Leyte and the Provincial Government of Palawan and Palawan State University.

Admission to the screenings is free on a first-come, first-served basis."
"Oliver and James Phelps, who played Weasley twins Fred and George in the film adaptation of the series, attended the launch of a Harry Potter exhibit in Germany. Jeffrey Hernaez, ABS-CBN News

BERLIN - Potterheads are in for a treat as they get another chance to visit the Harry Potter exhibit at Caligari Halle in Potsdam, Germany starting October 13.

Here, fans can get the chance to experience the magic that the bestselling book and the blockbuster movie can offer.

The story is something that has captivated the imagination of young and old, with author J.K. Rowling creating a whole new world that follows that adventures of Harry Potter, Hermione Granger, and Ron Weasley along with their classmates at the mysterious Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry.

The exhibit will feature actual props and costumes that were used in the Harry Potter films. Here, they can get a feel of the settings from popular Harry Potter locations, including the Gryffindor common room and dormitory, Professor Snape's Potions classroom, Professor Sprout's Herbology room where they planted those terribly noisy Mandrakes, and the scary Forbidden Forest where magical creatures abound.

To add to the fun, there will be interactive areas, too. The exhibit's website said guests can enter the Quidditch area and toss a quaffle ball, pull their own Mandrake in the Herbology classroom vignette, and even tour a recreation of Hagrid's hut and sit in his giant-size armchair for photo opportunities.

The book series and subsequent Hollywood films have a universal appeal, with a simple story of good triumphing over evil against all odds. The story involving the conflicts and challenges of ""the boy who lived"" serves as an inspiring reminder that any obstacle can be overcome by a heart that is filled with good intentions.

As popular as it is in Germany, where the exhibition was so successful it demanded a second run, it is also an event that will surely excite its numerous Filipino fans if ever it reaches Manila, where some bars are frequented because they serve their version of butterbeer and for whom the Harry Potter theme park attractions in Osaka, Japan and Orlando, Florida are must-sees. For German fans, the exhibit鈥檚 return is a not-to-be-missed event, where they can experience being part of a fantastical world where magic exists and anything is possible.

The media launch held on October 11 was graced by the mischievous Weasley twins Fred and George, who were played by Oliver and James Phelps.

The two reminisced about their filming days, calling a walkthrough of the exhibit as ""a trip down memory lane."" Oliver also pointed out that some of the guests coming into the exhibit were too young to watch the film when it came out, ""so it's a new generation of fanbase coming in,"" he said. ""I think it is a testament to the craftsmanship of the filmmakers in general.""

Robin Stapely, Vice President for Design and Creative of GES, said developing the exhibit was a two-year process. Citing their collaboration with Warner Bros. and the filmmakers, he promised fans ""a lot of special details"" in the exhibition.

For more information about the exhibit, visit the official website www.harrypotterexhibition.de

This article was written as part of the Goethe-institut鈥檚 Close Up Journalist鈥?exchange programme. More information can be found at www.goethe.de/nahaufnahme and at #goethecloseup."
"Various types of beer are lined up in a German supermarket. Jeffrey Hernaez, ABS-CBN News

BERLIN -- In Munich, it鈥檚 lederhosen and parades. In Manila, it鈥檚 t-shirts and rock concerts.

Whatever the form of entertainment, however, what ties the two Oktoberfest events together is the love for beer.

While traditionally, September signals the start of the beer festival, the Philippines celebrates its affinity for brewskies in the month of October. In fact, a big open-air event happened last Wednesday, with revelers availing of buy-one-take-one promos of the country鈥檚 best-known beer products as the country鈥檚 hottest bands rock it out on concert stages.

Within the confines of upscale hotels, there are Oktoberfest promos as well, where local and imported beers are usually served with a variety of sausages.

Germany is undoubtedly a beer-drinking country, something I observed first-hand through my first strolls out on the streets. I noticed Germans sitting on sidewalk bars indulging in their bracing brews even in the morning as accompaniment for their meals of pasta and bread. While many big breweries abound, churning out traditional favorites that have strong and bold flavors, I was told that lighter craft beers are becoming popular, with younger beer fans seeking out pales from microbreweries.

One thing I learned is how strict the beer-making process is followed according to the Reinheitsgebot, which permits only water, hops, and malt as ingredients.

The 鈥渂eer-purity law鈥?also stipulates that beers not exclusively using barley-malt such as wheat beer must be top-fermented. I believe, more than anything, it is an indication of how much pride this country takes in the quality of its product.

Various types of beer are lined up in a German supermarket. Jeffrey Hernaez, ABS-CBN News

Of course, Germans imbibe other things aside from beer. I found from attending dinner parties that they like their Sekt and Schnapps too. I was told that Schnapps is consumed not only because of its herbal flavors, but also because it is believed to aid in digestion.

I was also surprised to learn that after France and Italy, Germany is the third biggest producer of sparkling wine in the world, with 13 official wine regions.

Beer cocktails are also served to those inclined, and this is something novel for me, as it is not usually done in bars in the Philippines. Apparently, beer here can be mixed with Coke for something called a Diesel, and with Sprite for a Radler.

In the Philippines, beer-drinking is associated with celebrations. Many of the festivals around the archipelago are accompanied by feasts where beer is consumed. It is also served on special occasions, or simply during gatherings of friends after a long week at work. Rare is a commercial where it is shown to be a drink enjoyed at home alone. Most advertisements always have our beer drinkers in groups; the larger, the better.

Alcohol consumption is generally a communal act among the masses, with the Filipino tradition called ""tagay"" laying proof to this.

Tagay is an act of sharing a drink from one vessel, symbolizing kinship or brotherhood. A person in charge pours the beverage into a cup or glass, and it is passed around and refilled as needed. It is a ritual not solely confined to beer, with research showing that it is a common way of welcoming visitors to your hometown; by offering a guest a glass of whatever spirits are locally available, such as tuba or coconut wine in Quezon province, or rice wine from the North, you are showing your hospitality.

In contrast to Germans who drink their beer with meals (I attended a party where they served only bread and dips to go with the spirits), Filipinos prefer savory and fried dishes that are particularly popular for pairings during their drinking outings.

These include something as simple as spicy peanuts fried with garlic, deep-fried crispy pork knuckles or the sisig 鈥?a crunchy amalgamation of pork cheeks, pig鈥檚 ears, and pork liver, seasoned with garlic, citrus, and chili peppers that originated from the province of Pampanga.

Traditionally, beer in the Philippines is produced by industry giants such as San Miguel Brewery and Asia Brewery, with San Miguel Beer being the older brand having been established back in 1890, and is popular both in the Philippines and in Hong Kong.

While both beer brands are still lording it over in the tills, the concept of craft beer is also gaining ground, with a few enterprising beer lovers coming out with their own homegrown brands of IPAs (India Pale Ale) and pale ales, some even infusing them with local flavors such as coffee, mangoes, or coconuts.

Whether in Germany or the Philippines, beer plays an important part of culture and society. It binds us together as friends, enjoying the flavorful pleasures that a cold mug or stein can provide.

To this, I say prost (cheers) and mabuhay!

This article was written as part of the Goethe-institut鈥檚 Close Up Journalist鈥檚 exchange programme. More information can be found at www.goethe.de/nahaufnahme and at #goethecloseup."
"MANILA 鈥?The least Dr. Ulrich Nowak, director of the Goethe-institut Philippines, expected was this: every seat was taken at the SM Aura Premier Cinema on Tuesday night. The occasion was the opening of the third German Film Week hosted by the Goethe-institut.

The selection could prove to many that Germans can do cinema. The 10 chosen feature films show a broad range of topics. There is something for all ages and interests: love, action, history, family, friendship, and even contemporary political issues.

The opening night on Tuesday showed a very dark Moritz Bleibtreu. The German actor is internationally known for his work on 鈥淩un Lola Run鈥?(1998). He also performs in 鈥淜nockin鈥?on Heaven鈥檚 Door鈥?(1997). In 鈥淥nly God Can Judge Me鈥?(2017) or ""Nur Gott kann mich richten鈥?, there is no sparkly life shown on the streets of Germany鈥檚 business center.

In the film, Ricky (Moritz Bleibtreu) is a petty gangster who has just been released from prison and starts caring for his demented father. Somehow, he is dragged into a criminal swamp again. He reunites with his brother, Rafael, and partner-in-crime, Latif, for a last heist. However, their plan is jeopardized when Diana, a police officer with different intentions, shows up and a suspense-packed game of cat-and-mouse begins.

The most successful film from the selection might be ""In the Fade"" (2017) or 鈥淎us dem Nichts"", which is showing on Friday (Nov. 9), 9:30 pm at the SM City North EDSA, and on Saturday, 9.30 pm at the SM Aura Premier. It is only the second time that you can listen to Diane Krugers' German voice on screen. What a surprise because the famous actress, who has appeared in many Hollywood-productions, has only spoken German on screen in ""Inglorious Basterds"" (2009).

The closer she gets to her mother tongue on screen, the easier it gets to accept her as an authentic actress.

""In the Fade"" tells the story of Katja (Diane Kruger) who lives in Hamburg, in the north of Germany. She is completely choked up when her husband Nuri and their son Rocco are killed in a terrorist bombing. Depressed, she takes drugs and attempts suicide. But she gets her hopes up as the police arrest the terrorists, Andr茅 und Edda, a neo-Nazi couple. Following a nerve-wracking trial, the neo-Nazis are acquitted for lack of evidence. Katja is shattered, ""but her desperation gives way to an urge for vigilante justice,"" says the festival's website.

Watch more on iWantTFC

Diane Kruger convinces as a torn soul on screen. She is a loving mother, a drug addict and a revenge-seeking victim. Fatih Akin, who earned international awards with films such as 鈥淗ead-On鈥?(2004) and 鈥淭he Edge of Heaven鈥?(2007), puts Kruger at the center of almost every scene 鈥?a chance for her to convey her fierce inner torment, playing tough and vulnerable at the same time. For this lively performance, Kruger picked up a best actress award at last year鈥檚 Cannes Film Festival.

The thriller touches upon an important contemporary theme in Europe 鈥?the refugee crisis. Akin himself was born in Germany to Turkish parents. The scandalous response to a string of German xenophobic crimes of the National Socialist Underground (NSU) murders inspired the 45-year-old director to finally realise 鈥淚n the Fade鈥? The result is a dark picture of a society in which victims are criminalised and evil-doers are protected.

Not all of the movies selected draw a dark picture of German society. Romantics and family persons also get their money's worth in 鈥淩ock my Heart鈥?(2017).

The selection combines easy-to-watch films with more reflective features. All of them have one thing in common: They give an insight into German society, art and language. So, Film ab! (And鈥?Action!)

EDITOR'S NOTE: This article was written as part of the Goethe-institut鈥檚 Close-Up journalists鈥?exchange program. More information can be found at www.goethe.de/nahaufnahme and at #goethecloseup

--------------

ABOUT THE FESTIVAL

The German Film Week is a showcase of the latest and contemporary feature films to come out of German cinema. This year is the third edition hosted by the Goethe-institut Philippines and their partners, SM Cinemas, the Film Development Council of the Philippines (FDCP), St. Louis University, University of San Carlos, and Liceo de Cagayan University. Ten movies are shown until 11 November. A selection of five out of the ten feature films will be screened in the cities of Baguio, Cebu and Cagayan de Oro after the first week in Manila.

The Goethe-institut is the Federal Republic of Germany鈥檚 cultural institute, promoting the study of the German language abroad, and encouraging international cultural exchange.

Programme and Promo

https://www.goethe.de/ins/ph/en/kul/sup/g18/screening-schedule.html

Tickets to the 2018 German Film Week are priced at 100 Php for all films. All of the movies are subtitled in English.

This year, there will be an extra special Watch 鈥榥 Win raffle promo, in which everyone can participate. The quiz and the full mechanics can be found on the homepage of the German Film week. The grand winner of the promo will win a 4-day trip to Berlin."
"Privatus鈥?Yule Ball

PRIVATUS Private Dining, Plato PH, and Patronus Events, Inc. will hold a Harry Potter-themed Yule Ball on Dec. 14, 8 p.m. in La Castellana, Cabildo corner Beaterio Sts, Intramuros, Manila. The Harry Potter-inspired formal dance is expected to be attended by 250 witches and wizards and champions and partners in their best ball gowns, dress robes, and character re-creation. The menu will also be Harry Potter themed, with items like Cauldron Soup, Hogwarts Christmas Ham, Molly鈥檚 Magical Meat Pie, Golden Egg Custard, and Butterbeer. There will be a live band. There is currently an early bird promo for the first 100 registrants 鈥?P1,800 instead of the standard rate of P1,950. Sign up at https://goo.gl/forms/J15zZ8BOvpjjgNQn1. For Yule Ball reservations and inquiries call 0917-636-2272, 0917-580-5883, or e-mail patronusevents@gmail.com.

German-Filipino food exchange

THIS month the Goethe-institut Philippinen has lined up a series of events to foster Filipino-German cultural exchange through the medium of food. Under the umbrella title Wanderlust K眉che (literally 鈥渨anderlust kitchen鈥?, the events include an exhibition, crash courses in German, film screenings, and a special dinner prepared by M Caf茅鈥檚 Kalel Chan and guest chef Steffen Burkhardt. The exhibit, Sausage Salads & Potato Pancakes, features a number of special cookbooks from Germany and contains a myriad of interesting trivia on German cuisine. It is on view until Nov. 28 at the Goethe-institut. There is also a free crash course on Nov. 17 dubbed 鈥淏eyond the Beer: A Crash Course on German Culinary Culture.鈥?The fusion dinner, called 鈥淭he Magic Hour,鈥?is set for Nov. 29 at M Caf茅 in Makati. For more information on the individual events, visit Goethe.de/WanderlustKueche. For inquiries, e-mail info-goethe@goethe.de.

Wine dinner, champagne class

EDSA SHANGRI-LA, Manila鈥檚 Cantonese restaurant Summer Palace, in partnership with Premium Wine Exchange, presents a wine dinner, 鈥淪ummer in Canton,鈥?on Nov. 9, 7 p.m., at Peony Private Room. The five-course dinner will showcase classic and brand new creations, paired with wines from France鈥檚 Jura, Alsace, Beaujolais, Rhone, and Loire regions. The dinner with wine pairings is on offer at P3,950 net per person. Meanwhile, the first and only Chinese master sommelier in the world and Corporate Director of Wine at Shangri-La Hotels and Resorts, Yang Lu, will introduce both iconic and fledgling champagne wineries on the rise in an intimate champagne master class, 鈥淗ouses vs Growers: The Rise of Small Champagne Growers,鈥?on Nov. 8, noon, at the Peony Private Room. Get a 20% discount when booking both the wine class and the wine dinner. For bookings and inquiries, call 633-8888 or e-mail summerpalace.esl@shangri-la.com."
"University of the Philippines-Diliman student Gino Carlo Garcia. Jeffrey Hernaez

MANILA 鈥?Gino Carlo Garcia doesn鈥檛 stand out in Manila. He pins his raven-black hair backwards with a hair clip and his white teeth flash with every smile.

At the University of the Philippines Diliman (UP) in Quezon City, he resembles every other student. And yet, many things are different for the 33-year-old.

Sitting on a bench at UP, he observes the students lying on the grass having a good time in the park. It's the first time he's seen his home in two years.

鈥淚t's funny to be here again鈥? he says in German with almost no accent.

He has spent the past 24 months in Eberswalde 鈥?a small town in Germany located in the forest. 鈥淎 completely different world鈥? he says.

There, Gino is studying at the Hochschule fuer nachhaltige Entwicklung (HNE) 鈥?the University for Sustainable Development.

Within his studies, he focuses on Global Change Management.

He has just finished collecting data for his Master鈥檚 thesis in Manila. 鈥淭he past two months went over too fast. I didn鈥檛 have enough time to see all the people I wanted to see鈥? he says.

While studying, he experienced many things that were new to him.

For example, for the first time in his life he was able to touch snow. 鈥淚 was scared鈥? he says, but then laughs putting back his hair again. 鈥淚 had only seen snow in blockbuster movies. Snow 鈥?for me, it always entailed a storm or another catastrophe. It's uncanny how this image has shaped me鈥? After all, it was a new experience for the student, who is surrounded by a gentle and humble aura.

Gino also suffered a cultural shock after his arrival in Germany. Suddenly he was faced with exclusively white faces, plenty of rain, cold, and little rice.

However, the warmth returned quickly, thanks to a sincere welcome at the university.

鈥淚 wasn't the only one who was new at the HNEE. I didn鈥檛 expect it, but it was very easy to find friends and a shared room鈥? he says.

A big brother program at the university helped him overcome the bureaucratic hurdles of everyday life and understand public transport.

At the same time, things were rumbling on the other side of the globe in his homeland, particularly close to his birthplace of Iligan City on Mindanao.

The images of the Marawi war are still deeply engraved in the memory of many Filipinos: bombs, gunfire, deaths, injuries, hostages, destroyed buildings, people without shelter and belongings. For that, Gino could only follow the news. A lot of things pattered on the young Filipino: his first year in Eberswalde, the troubles back home, the agitation within himself.

Before, Gino was part of the peacebuilding process. Participating in a project initiated by the President's Bureau, on several occasions, he had travelled to the conflict-ridden region.

Together with other project workers, Gino logged violent incidents and destruction and sent assessments back to Manila.

鈥淚t's sad, but the conflict became daily work for me鈥? he says still looking at the students in the park. 鈥淢anila was a different world to me.鈥?
He was hardly allowed to take a single step without a military escort. One experience allowed him to profoundly grasp the harsh reality of the conflict.

鈥淭he mayor of one of the affected cities was killed by rebels. A short while later I met his widowed wife. The whole situation upset me鈥? He pauses searching for another word, 鈥淎nd it made me very mad. Everything seems to be political somehow鈥?

鈥淢y family is very proud of me. It's a very special thing for Filipinos to study in Germany鈥? For the time being, as the second Philippine student at the HNE Eberswalde, he is concentrating on his degree now. A scholarship from the Heinrich B枚ll Foundation helped him to finally realize his dream.

After helping to clean up after typhoon Washi in 2011 on behalf of the German Society for International Cooperation (GIZ), Gino met his predecessor Kay Kristine Alave.

鈥淜ay told me about the degree course. I couldn鈥檛 let go of the thought. Even in the jungles of Mindanao, I was constantly thinking about how to get to Eberswalde鈥?

Especially after the impact of the typhoon, he was inspired by the idea of learning at a school that focuses on environmental change.

Around 40 percent of the students enrolled in Eberswalde come from other countries, 60 percent from Germany. 鈥淎 great mix鈥? says Gino.

All of them are concerned by one topic: sustainability. Some of the environmental issues raised during his studies have left him feeling disillusioned.

鈥淐ertain topics are frustrating. It's frightening how many people have no idea of environmental problems鈥? To change that, Gino and other students publish a Vlog on YouTube interviewing experts in the Berlin S-Bahn 鈥?a train line that circles around the German capital. The aim is to create more awareness for environmental issues and change in that matter.

Watch more on iWantTFC

Concerning pollution and emissions, Gino immediately thinks of Metro-Manila's biggest problem: the traffic.

One scene is repeatedly seen on the streets everyday: Bumper to bumper, cars, buses, scooters, trucks and other vehicles are crawling across the main traffic routes at a snail's pace, wrapped in a thick cloud of exhaust fumes.

In his final thesis, the Master's student will address the introduction of an environmental tax in the Philippines 鈥?a tax on carbon, plastics, waste and others.

Is it feasible? Gino isn't sure yet. 鈥淚'm not the first person to have ideas about this. Ultimately, a lot depends on political processes.鈥?If he could import anything from Germany to the Philippines he鈥檇 choose the public transport system and cycling culture. 鈥淚've already convinced two of my friends in Manila to ride their bikes every day.鈥?
Gino still isn鈥檛 sure what will happen after he graduates. However, he intends to make the most of the visa, which will allow him to stay in Germany for another 18 months. One thing is certain: Environmental issues will continue to concern him. Perhaps for Gino they will become a gateway between the island paradise and the Eberswalde forest. With his background, he certainly has the best prospects to achieve this.

*This article was written as part of the Goethe-institut鈥檚 Close-Up journalists鈥?exchange program . More information can be found at www.goethe.de/nahaufnahme and at #goethecloseup."
"Gerphil Flores. Facebook.com/gerphilgeraldine

Gerphil Geraldine Flores, a graduate of the University of the Philippines College of Music, made international headlines when she auditioned for 鈥淎sia鈥檚 Got Talent鈥?in 2015 and got a golden buzzer from David Foster.

In an interview with Katrin Hartmann, an exchange journalist from Germany, the 28-year-old classical singer revealed her Filipino-German roots and talked about the condition of opera performers in the Philippines.

Q: Gerphil, you are dubbed as 鈥淎sia鈥檚 Golden Girl鈥?though you were born in Hamburg, Germany. How much German blood is in you?

A: I鈥檓 half German. My dad is a pure German, while my mom is a Filipina.

Q: What kind of German and Filipino habits have you adapted from them?

A: Filipinos are known for being polite. We usually use words like 鈥減o鈥?or 鈥渙po鈥? These are courteous and respectful words of affirmation, as in 鈥測es sir/ma鈥檃m.鈥?We also use the 鈥渕ano po鈥?gesture as a sign of respect for the elderly. It is a gesture where we reach for the hand of an elderly and touch it on our forehead. Those are some Filipino traits that I have adapted from my mom. Most Germans are known for being punctual, and so am I. Though my mom is a Filipino, she taught me to value time and that every minute counts.

Q: How many years did you stay abroad, and how is your German today?

A: I was born there and lived there until I was four years old. I鈥檓 not fluent in German but I can still read, speak, and understand some phrases and words.

Q: You got in touch with German composers and opera quite early 鈥?at the age of three. Do you have a favorite opera that reminds you of those days?

A: My parents love music, especially my mom. One of my favorite operas is Mozart鈥檚 鈥淒ie Zauberfl枚te鈥?

Watch more on iWantTFC

Q: You have been in the Philippines for almost 24 years. You have also touched upon the support for classical singers in Germany. What is the main difference for you?

A: In the Philippines, classical singers are not enjoying any support from the government, but we continue regardless of the situation because of our love in music. Here, only a few are the major supporters that appreciate classical music. Media like radio and television only cater to commercially appealing music like pop and RnB that target the masses in general. Viewership and patronage of classical music do not equate to financial freedom. It鈥檚 the main reason why classical singers try their luck in the western world for financial and career advancement.

Q: Do you have a favorite German song?

A: There are a lot of beautiful German songs, but if I鈥檓 to give one song in particular, I鈥檇 say Robert Schumann鈥檚 鈥淲idmung.鈥?
Q: Do you still sing in holy mass aired on TV every Sunday? Have you ever sung any German Church songs there?

A: I don鈥檛 sing in that program anymore due to schedule conflicts. Since it is a Filipino program and most viewers are Filipinos, I only sang Filipino and English church songs in that program.

Q: How often have you visited your birthplace?

A: Since I came to the Philippines, I haven鈥檛 set foot back in my birthplace. But I miss my hometown and I plan to visit it soon.

Q: You recently sang 鈥淥 Holy Night鈥?for the Christmas tree lighting at Eton Centris. What are your future plans? Is Germany included anyhow?

A: I鈥檓 planning on making my own music school soon and teach music to people of all ages. I also plan on doing more concerts for a cause in and outside the Philippines that would help people or organizations. Germany is definitely included in my musical journey.

This article was written as part of the Goethe-institut鈥檚 Close-Up journalists鈥?exchange program. More information can be found at www.goethe.de/nahaufnahme and at #goethecloseup."
"A CAREFULLY selected lineup of contemporary German Cinema, many of which have already received numerous awards in international film festivals, highlights the 2017 German Film Week from Oct. 14 to 18 at the SM City Cebu Cinema.

Organized by the Goethe-institut Philippinen in partnership with SM Retail, SM Lifestyle Entertainment Inc., SM Cinema and with support of Film Development Council of the Philippines, the German Film Week offers a diverse selection of films for audiences, with the goal of promoting German language and culture.

鈥淲hether mainstream, romantic comedies, or micro-budget indies, we made sure our festival attendees will be entertained and pleased,鈥?said Goethe-institut Philippinen director and head of cultural programs Ulrich Nowak. (PR)"
"A CAREFULLY-SELECTED lineup of contemporary German Cinema, many of which are already receiving numerous awards in international film festivals, highlights the 2017 German Film at the SM Supermalls.

Organized by the Goethe-institut Philippinen in partnership with SM Retail, SM LIFESTYLE ENTERTAINMENT INC., SM Cinema and with support of Film Development Council of the Philippines, the German Film Week offers a diverse selection of films for audiences, with the goal of promoting German language and Culture.

""We are truly excited to unveil this year's film and new voices to Philippine audiences,"" said Goethe-IntistitutPhilippinen Director and Head of Cultural Programs Dr. Ulrich Nowak. ""Whether mainstream, romantic comedies, or micro-budget indies, we made sure our festival attendees will be entertained and pleased.

The German Film Week opening night recently took place at the SM Mall of Asia Cinema 4 with German filmmaker Markus Goller as its special guest. Goller, who is the director of My Brother Simple/ Simpel, which opens this year's festivities, had a Q & A session after the film's screening.

The succeeding film screenings will run from September 28 to October 5 at cinemas at the SM Mall of Asia and SM City North EDSA for Metro Manila.

Aside from the Manila leg, the German Film Week will move on to other Philippine locations: at SM City Clark from Oct 8 to 12; SM City Cebu from Oct 14 to 18; and SM City Davao from Oct 20-24.

The festival will screen 12 films that tackles issues of family, romance, journey, society, terrorism, German history and more.

The opening film My Brother Simple / Simpel directed by Markus Goller, a film based on French bestseller about two brothers - one mentally handicapped - who try to find their long-lost father. Other family related films include Toni Erdmann directed by Maren Ade follows the story of Winfried and his career woman daughter Ines; and Daniel Levy's The World of Wunderlichs about a single mother accompanied by her family on her casting journey.

There are also films about modern romance. Karoline Herfurth's You've Got a Message / SMS f眉rDich is about love in the digital age; while The Bloom of Yesterday / Die Blumen von gestern by Director Chris Kraus is a love story set in the world of academic discipline. Return to Montauk directed by Volker Schl枚ndorff re-lives a great but failed love affair.

The German Film Week also brings us to the world of punk rocker Fussel as he struggles between therapy and real life in Happy Burnout; and Marija, a young woman who fights to live a freer, self-determined life. On the other hand, Mark Rothemond's My Blind Date with Life, on the other hand shows how SaliyaKahawatte loses his eyesight, yet succeeds in his career.

There are also films that we can say are ripped from the world headlines. Robert Thalheim's Old Agent Men / Kundschafter des Friedens is about how Jochen Falk and two further former Stasi agents embark on a dangerous mission to rescue the kidnapped president of Katschekistan; while Welcome to Germany / Willkommenbei den Hartmanns tells the story of Diallo, a Nigerian asylum seeker who is taken in by a family in a posh district of Munich.

German Film Week also presents the screening of Captive directed by acclaimed Filipino filmmaker Brillante Mendoza. Captive will be screened during the week-long festival in SM Mall of Asia and SM City North EDSA. Captive was screened in competition during the prestigious 62nd Berlin International Film festival, the prestigious Berlinale. This will be followed by a film appreciation video.

""The Brillante Mendoza screening is an addition to this year's program,"" said Dr. Nowak. ""Our goal at the institute has always been to promote cultural exchange between Germany and the countries we support. And this is one way to achieve that goal-to share German features and highlight Filipino creativity.""

Tickets to the 2017 GERMAN FILM WEEK are priced at 100Php."
"If you want people to buy your product, you need to make your product look as flattering as possible. The best way to do this is with excellent photography and subsequent presentation.

But how do you manage these strategies?

Tips for Better Product Photography and Presentation

These are some of the best ways to enhance your product photography and presentation:

1. Hire a professional. One of the most important steps to take is hiring a professional. If you鈥檙e a small business on a tight budget, you might be tempted to try and take on the photography job yourself. But for the most part, professional photographers are worth the money. They鈥檒l have better equipment, more experience, and a better eye for composition, ultimately leading you to much better photographs. Once you find an ideal candidate, trust their advice and recommendations; you鈥檙e hiring them for their experience and expertise, not simply to follow your instructions.

2. Prepare for both digital and print applications. Before and during the photo shoot, plan to take photographs that can be useful in both physical and digital contexts. For example, in print, you might create a saddle stitched booklet that highlights some of your best product photos along with persuasive descriptions of those products. In the digital world, you could use a product photo as the background for a landing page. If you have photos that can work for almost any marketing and advertising strategy you can imagine, you鈥檒l be in a much better position.

3. Invest in lighting. One of the secrets to better product photography is lighting. With the right combination of direct and indirect lighting, you鈥檒l be able to show off the true colors of your product in a natural, yet interesting way. Chances are, your professional photographer will have lighting options available for you; if not, you may need to invest in better studio lighting.

4. Get studio and in-context photos. To give yourself more creative flexibility, take photos of your product in both studio and in-context forms. Studio photography tends to show off your product in isolation, often in an artistic way. In-context photography, by contrast, shows your product being used in a natural environment. Both of these formats can work well, but they tend to work well in different applications. You鈥檒l need both to maximize your chances of success.

5. Experiment with conditions. Try actively experimenting with your photography conditions. Subtle tweaks to the lighting, the background, and even the positioning of the product can all make a big difference.

6. Accurately represent the product. It鈥檚 natural to want to show off the best qualities of your product, but you also don鈥檛 want to misrepresent your product. Make sure the colors and dimensions of your product are accurately represented.

7. Utilize negative space. In photography, it鈥檚 important to play with negative space 鈥?in other words, the space where your there are no central photographic subjects. For example, if you鈥檙e taking a photo of a building, the sky might be the negative space of your photograph. Having more negative space and framing it properly can highlight your product even more, making it stand out and look more attractive to your customers.

8. Play with colors. Experiment with different colors in the photo composition. If your product is green, you might try to make it stand out more by placing red objects nearby or including more red in the background. Alternatively, you can place the product with similarly colored objects to help customers associate your product with those objects. For example, you might photograph a glass of lemonade with a bright yellow sun, helping customers associate lemonade with hot summer days.

9. Guide the viewer鈥檚 eye. Photography composition gives you the power to guide a viewer鈥檚 eye. Placing diagonal lines for certain geometric shapes in the right order will practically dictate the path that customer eyes take. Use this to your advantage, drawing people to your product or to an important piece of copy that complements the photo.

10. Show off multiple different photos. Throughout all your marketing and advertising campaigns, make sure you show up many different photos of your product. You don鈥檛 want to use the same photo over and over, even if it increases your consistency. This is important for introducing more novelty into your campaigns and for experimentation purposes, so you can learn which of your photos are most effective.

Measurement and Analysis

Now that you have a round of excellent product photographs and a plan for how to present them, all that鈥檚 left is to measure and analyze your work. It鈥檚 important to have tools in place that can help you determine whether or not your product photos are effective; simple metrics like conversion rate or time spent on page can help you evaluate which of your photos are doing the most work. Once you have this information, you鈥檒l learn more about your target audience and you鈥檒l have more data that can guide your next product photography session. Always keep improving your work."


"Ayala Malls Cinemas opens its screens at Glorietta 4 and Trinoma for the first edition of German Film Week on September 22 鈥?27, presented by the Goethe-institut Philippinen.

The German Film Week 2016, marks the first all-German film event in the Philippines in recent years. Opening the event is the premiere of 鈥淲ho Am I 鈥?No System Is Safe鈥?(Who Am I 鈥?Kein System ist sicher) by director Baran bo Odar on September 21 at Glorietta 4 cinemas, Ayala Center, Makati City. The film is about a gifted hacker who only feels at home in the virtual reality who finds an opportunity to demonstrate his talent to a wider audience.

Regular screenings will follow from September 22 to 27 at Glorietta 4 and Trinoma cinemas. The Film Week is comprised of 13 hand-picked features released in Germany in the last two years. Tickets are priced at P100 and are available via www.SureSeats.com or at the cinema counters.

Also featured in the festival are the Emma Watson starrer 鈥淭he Colony,鈥?with other highly acclaimed films 鈥?4 Weeks,鈥?鈥淎s We Were Dreaming,鈥?鈥淭he Dark Side of the Moon,鈥?鈥淗ead Full of Honey,鈥?鈥淗枚rdur: Between the Worlds,鈥?鈥淚鈥檓 Off Then,鈥?鈥淟abyrinth of Lies,鈥?鈥淪tations of the Cross,鈥?鈥淢eteor Street,鈥?鈥淩ough Road Ahead鈥?and 鈥淲ild.鈥?
The German Film Week 2016 is made possible by the support of the Film Development Council of the Philippines and Ayala Malls Cinemas. For details, visit the Goethe Web site. ADVT."
"By 2020, one million Americans will learn Chinese, a goal set by United States President Barack Obama to strengthen US-China ties.

鈥淚f our countries are going to do more together around the world, then speaking each other鈥檚 language, truly understanding each other, is a good place to start,鈥?said Obama at a joint press conference with Chinese President Xi Jinping last month.

ADVERTISEMENT

There are an estimated 200,000 Americans studying Chinese.

This new 鈥? Million Strong鈥?initiative, while ambitious, is achievable, said Carola McGiffert, president of non-profit group 100,000 Strong Foundation, which will oversee the project. The challenge would be raising the funds needed to push the project forward.

The strategy, McGiffert said, would be to reach out to American foundations focused on primary and secondary education as well as US and Chinese corporations 鈥渓ooking to build a pipeline of future employees.鈥?
A recent survey by Northern Illinois University showed that a third of employers in northern Illinois are looking to hire bilingual college graduates and about 22 per cent of businesses said Mandarin is the most useful language.

The one million target is attainable, experts point out, because of the immense interest in the language. A study by the Modern Language Association of America shows that at the tertiary level, there was an 18 percent rise in graduate enrolments in Chinese over seven years, reaching 61,055 students in 2013.

Some also point out that one million students make up less than 2 percent of the 55 million students at the primary and secondary level in the US.

A top priority for 100,000 Strong is to develop Chinese curriculum standards that can be used by school systems and teachers in the US and a steering group of experts is being put together to oversee this.

Many schools currently use curricula developed by education consultants 鈥渂ut there are schools that don鈥檛 know which curriculum is effective, and it鈥檚 a barrier to starting a Chinese language program鈥? said McGiffert.

The foundation, launched in 2013 to strengthen US-China relations through exchanges and language studies, also hopes to double the number of Chinese language teachers in the US over the next five years.

ADVERTISEMENT

Through the support of the Chinese government, there are about 500 Chinese language teachers in the US, who teach at the Confucius institutes or Confucius classrooms in schools.

The program is similar to Germany鈥檚 Goethe-institut or France鈥檚 Alliance Francaise.

The goal, however, would be to train Americans who have a high proficiency of Mandarin to become teachers, said McGiffert, whose organization is no stranger to lofty goals.

In 2009, Obama announced the 100,000 Strong initiative which aimed to send 100,000 American students to study in China in five years. The goal was met in 2014.

Graduate student Juanique McNeill, 23, who has been on two exchange programs to China, belongs to this rare group of Mandarin speakers in the US. When she first went to Beijing in 2008, she said she spoke no Mandarin. She was also the first in her family to have left the US.

鈥淚t wasn鈥檛 something I had ever thought of doing, but my adviser encouraged me to go,鈥?said McNeill, who practices Mandarin by chatting with friends in China using messaging and calling app WeChat.

鈥淭hat first trip influenced me for sure,鈥?said the master鈥檚 student in international studies who is focusing on China.

A big supporter of the 鈥? Million Strong鈥?initiative, McNeill said: 鈥淚t鈥檚 really good for our economy and where we plan on going with foreign relations in the future鈥?if we want strong relations with China, we need people who speak Mandarin.鈥?
RELATED STORIES

China divided over the common language

Chinese to be taught in public high schools

INQUIRER.net wants to hear from you! Take part in our reader survey and help us be better. Click on this image to answer.

Your subscription could not be saved. Please try again. Your subscription has been successful. Subscribe to our daily newsletter SIGN ME UP

Read Next"

"Cine Europa continues to excite Filipino audiences

Cine Europa, one of the biggest film festivals in the Philippines, continues to excite its Filipino audiences. Cine Europa was inaugurated recently by Mr J茅r么me Rivi猫re, First Secretary of the European Union Delegation to the Philippines, Ms Lala Fojas, Vice-President, Shangri-La Plaza Corporation and Mr Ted Granados, Executive Director, Film Development Council of the Philippines in Shang Cineplex, Shangri-La Plaza Mandaluyong City.

The festival which has marked its18th year has definitely endeared itself to its thousands of Filipino audiences.

For the past 18 years, Mr J茅r么me Rivi猫re, First Secretary of the European Union Delegation to the Philippines said that Cine Europa has been a lasting gift of the European Union to share its culture and heritage with the Philippines.

Cine Europa has gone bigger from showing 11 films in 1998 to 23 movies in 2015. These films come from Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Italy, The Netherlands, Poland, Romania, Slovakia, Spain, Sweden, the United Kingdom, Norway and Switzerland.

Meanwhile, Fojas said that the festival has played a significant role in the lives of the Filipinos.

She said that stories in Cine Europa often tell us something about ourselves as much as it does its characters.

""We revel in stories of adventure and misadventure, often rooting for the valiant protagonist. Whether it鈥檚 to fight for equality or for love, to protect one鈥檚 own beliefs or to go against them, to pursue one鈥檚 passion or an unrequited love"".

""It is not only despite of but especially because of our limitations that we are all driven by our need to become something more than ourselves and, in the process, emerge as better and stronger persons"".

Granados described the festival as bridging the cultural divide between and among Filipinos and Europeans.

鈥淭hese are films without borders and share common humanity,"" he said.

The festival travels to other provinces to reach out to more Filipinos:

Iloilo City Cinematheque, September 29 to October 4;

Ayala Center Cebu, Cebu City, October 9 to 11;

Zamboanga Cinematheque, October 13 to 18;

University of the Philippines, Tacloban City, October 21 to 25;

Film Development Council of the Philippines, Davao City, November 3 to 8;

Visayas State University, Leyte, November 10 to 15 ;

Liceo De Cagayan University, Cagayan De Oro; November 18 to 22 ;

In this year's festival, the Embassy of Poland based in Kuala Lumpur, for the first time, will participate with their two famous movies 鈥?Miasto 44 (a story of love, friendship and pursuit of adventure during the 1944 Warsaw Uprising) and Ida ( a story of a novitiate nun in 1960s who discovers a dark family secret dating back to the Nazi occupation).

Meanwhile, Finland returns this year with its entry, ""Naked Harbour"", a film about how hope conquers love.

Another special highlight in this year's festival is the arrival of Lenka Kny, director and Alesh Hudsky, producer of ""Christmas Miracles in Prague"" from the Embassy of the Czech Republic. Both are expected to hold a series of lectures in October as her hilarious and popular movie showcasing the miracles of the Infant Jesus, is screened.

Cine Europa 18 is organised by the European Union Cultural Group in Manila and EU Cultural Institutes accredited to the Philippines including the Embassies of Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Italy, Netherlands, photo by Manuel GenerosoNorway, Poland, Romania, Spain, Slovakia, Sweden, Switzerland, United Kingdom, the Delegation of the European Union to the Philippines, Instituto Cervantes de Manila, British Council, Goethe-institut, Philippine-Italian Association, and Alliance Fran莽aise.

Cine Europa partners include: the Shangri-La Plaza Mall (Manila), Film Development Council of the Philippines, Arts Council of Cebu and Liceo de Cagayan de Oro (Mindanao), the Visayas State University in Baybay and University of the Philippines - Tacloban. Philstar.com is the online media partner of Cine Europa.

Other partners who have played a very important role in the film festival are: JEC Philippines, Institut Francais, the Norwegian Film Institute and the Swiss Cultural Fund 鈥?Philippines."
"MANILA, Philippines 鈥?This February, five international jazz artists from the Philippines and Europe will delight Manila at the 2015 Euro-Pinoy Jazz Concerts. Their sonic syntheses will be performed in two concerts that will take place on February 20, Friday, 9:00 p.m., at Tiendesitas, Ortigas Avenue cor. E. Rodriguez Ave. (C-5) and on February 21, Saturday, 8:00 p.m., at the historic Fort Santiago in Intramuros, Manila. Admission is free on a first come, first served basis.

The musicians鈥?six-day collaboration will commence with a three-day workshop on February 17-19, where the distinguished musicians will harmonize their unique brands of artistry to compose an original jazz repertoire. During these days, each artist will be bringing his own creative expressions of jazz music to the table, with the aim of creating a fresh and distinctive identity, and fostering cultural cooperation.

Highly respected for their innovative approaches to their craft, these musicians have also come together to foster a greater appreciation of jazz music among Filipino audiences, and transcend linguistic and cultural barriers between European nations and the Philippines through the language of music. The roster includes the Philippines鈥?very own Henry Katindig, son of the legendary jazz musician Eddie Katindig and multi-awarded jazz drummer/percussionist Mar Dizon. European artists joining them on stage are guitarist Nguy锚n L锚 of France, German jazz singer Michael Schiefel and Austrian bassist Raphael Preuschl.

Euro-Pinoy Jazz Concerts is organized by the Goethe-institut, embassies of Austria, France and Switzerland together with the National Commission for Culture and the Arts and the European Union Delegation. The event is also supported by Intramuros Administration, the Luneta Hotel, the Swiss Cultural Fund, Tiendesitas and Qatar Airways.

RELATED STORIES

Speaking the common language of jazz, happily

Top European jazz artists to perform in Taguig, Manila"
"European Union brings film festival to Leyte for first time

MANILA, Philippines - The European Film Festival known as Cine Europa, now in its 17th year, goes this month to Leyte for the first time this year, bringing family-oriented films to communities affected by Supertyphoon Yolanda.

European Union Ambassador Guy Ledoux and Czech Ambassador Jaroslav Ol拧a, Jr. will inaugurate the Cine Europa in Leyte. Fifteen European countries including 13 European Union member states are presenting 21 films at Visayas State University in Baybay, Leyte (16 to 20 October) and at the University of the Philippines in Tacloban, Leyte (21 to 26 October).

The European Union has opted to bring Cine Europa to Leyte one year after strong typhoon struck the country as a gesture to local communities in need of some respite.

""Philippine families remained steadfast and strong in times of disasters. They provided comfort in darkest times and bring smiles to weary hearts and for these reasons, the EU is pleased to bring family-focused Cine Europa in Leyte,"" said EU Ambassador Ledoux.

The Italian production ""Scialla"" or ""Easy"" directed by Francesco Bruni is the featured film at Visayas State University during the concluding ceremony to be held on 20 October.

The film won prestigious awards including at the Venice Film Festival and in the Annecy Italian Cinema Festival.

The movie depicts the character of Bruno Beltrame, a washed out writer who tutors adolescents whose apathy for learning is matched only by Beltrame's own apathy for teaching. One of his students is Luca, a vivacious and irreverent 15 year old student who turns out to be his love child. Luca's mother leaves for Africa and places him under the care of Bruno.

An uneasy co-existence begins between the lethargic former professor and the restless adolescent but, ""Scialla"" reveals how a father rediscovers his own family and his own child.

Meanwhile, Ob?ansk媒 pr?kaz or ""Identity Card"" is the film to be screened on 21 October at the University of the Philippines as the premiere of Cine Europa in Tacloban.

Identity Card is a Czech bitter comedy film by Ond?ej Trojan based on a story by Petr 艩abach. The movie is set in communist Czechoslovakia in the 1970s and gives a clear picture of the socio-political environment of that period marked formally by big ideals, which nobody trusted anymore. A time of creepy repression reaching into even minor detail of everyone's private and social life.

History of Cine Europa

Cine Europa, which started out 17 years ago with screenings only in Manila, continues to expand to the provinces with screenings this year planned in 9 Filipino cities. With movies being shown between September and November 2014 Cine Europa is certainly amongst the longestFilm Festivals in the Philippines.

Cine Europa moved to eight other cities: Baguio City Cinematheque from 23 to 28 September followed by Iloilo City Cinematheque from 30 September to 5 October and then Ayala Center Cinema in Cebu City from 10 to 12 October.

In Mindanao, Cinematheque Davao City will host Cine Europa from 28 October to 2 November. It then moves on to Cinematheque in Zamboanga City from 4 to 9 November before concluding with screenings in Liceo de Cagayan University in Cagayan de Oro City from 13 to 16 November.

The film festival this year has a total of 23 movies from Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Denmark, France, Germany, Hungary, Italy, The Netherlands, Romania, Slovakia, Spain, Sweden, the United Kingdom, Norway and Switzerland.

Admission is free for all screenings at all locations for the two-month festival.

Cine Europa 17 is organized by the European Union Cultural Group in Manila and is funded by the European Embassies and Cultural Institutes accredited to the Philippines including the Embassies of Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, Romania, Spain, Slovak Republic, Sweden, Switzerland, United Kingdom, the Delegation of the European Union to the Philippines, Alliance Fran莽aise, British Council, Goethe-institut, Philippine-Italian Association, and the Instituto Cervantes de Manila with the important contribution of the Film Development Council of the Philippines.

Our partners include, the Independent Film Cooperative, the Shangri-La Plaza Mall (Manila), Arts Council of Cebu and Liceo de Cagayan de Oro (Mindanao) and the Visayas State University in Baybay and U.P Tacloban. Philstar.com is the online media partner of Cine Europa."
"The following is a press release from The Mind Museum.

Have you ever been intrigued by the possibility of robots surpassing humans in the near future? Do you think you can live a normal life without using any kind of plastics? What will be the story of our lives shaped by future technologies?

These are just some of the curious questions to explore as Goethe-institut partners with The Mind Museum to showcase the Science Film Festival 2014. This aims to promote interest in science and culture among the youth, and motivate the younger generation to pursue a career in the field.

鈥淭he films will communicate scientific concepts in an easily-digestible and enjoyable form, providing schools and institutions a non-traditional medium for science teaching and learning,鈥?says Dr. Petra Raymond, director for Goethe-institut Philippinen.

This one of a kind science showcase is made possible with the support of the festival鈥檚 partners, including its main sponsor 鈥?premium automotive brand Mercedes-Benz, an advocate of technological innovation and progress.

鈥淲e are honored to host the opening of the 5th Science Film Festival in the Philippines,鈥?says The Mind Museum curator, Maria Isabel Garcia. Centering on the theme of 鈥楩uture Technologies,鈥?this year鈥檚 festival explores the broad spectrum of innovative technologies and cutting edge science through audio-visual content from all over the globe.

A global spectacle like no other

Organized by the Goethe-institut and its partners in 14 countries around the world, the Science Film Festival is the only existing event of its kind in Southeast Asia, North Africa and the Middle East. This year鈥檚 showcase is the 5th time the Philippines will be hosting the festival.

鈥淟ike The Mind Museum, the Science Film Festival is a celebration of how the arts help in making the stories of science and technology connect with larger audiences,鈥?Garcia adds. The Mind Museum will feature 20 specially curated films from the international selection for elementary, secondary, and university audiences all woven into galleries and exhibits. Watch short films on aerial robots, climate change, the nanotech revolution, space science, the mind-boggling world of logic, and so much more.

An exciting film fest for curious learners

Two short films will premiere at the opening day on November 4, and can be viewed with the rest of the films until December 14.

鈥淎nnedroids,鈥?is the story of a boy, two girls, and three androids. It鈥檚 a science based action-adventure series for children that follows genius kid-scientist Anne, her kid assistants Nick and Shania, her android creations, and their uncanny ways of figuring out the real life solutions to a number of scientific problems.

Meanwhile, a 10-minute German short film entitled 鈥淣ine-and-a-Half: Life Without Plastic鈥?takes the audience through the curious experiment of a guy daring to live without plastic products whatsoever. It鈥檚 virtually impossible not to use any plastic in everyday life, so it will be interesting to see what kind of alternatives can help him鈥攁nd the world, of course鈥攁chieve such a feat.

To enrich the film fest experience, museum guests will get to practice and learn more about science through hands-on, minds-on activities and games conducted by The Mind Museum鈥檚 resident scientists, the Mind Movers. This happens six (6) times a day at 10am, 11am, 1pm, 2pm, 4pm and 5pm, Tuesdays to Sundays.



Email inquiry@themindmuseum.org for more details, or follow The Mind Museum on Facebook and Twitter for updates on upcoming Science Film Festival activities at the museum. 鈥?Rappler.com"
"Cine Europa ongoing in Iloilo until Sept. 29

Cine enthusiasts from Iloilo City warmly welcomed Cine Europa as the film festival opened Thursday night for the second time with the screening of the heartwarming yet funny story Almanya 芒鈧€?Willkommen in Deutschland.

Directed by Yasemin Samdereli, Almanya tells of how Huseyin Yilmaz came to Germany in 1964 as an Anatolian guet worker and how shortly before he is about to be naturalized, he realized he is not sure whether he wants to become a German citizen.

Aside from Almanya, moviegoing public from Iloilo will be able to enjoy 20 other European films from Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Denmark, France, Italy, Greece, Hungary, Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, Romania, Slovakia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. This is the second time that the film festival is going to Iloilo City in partnership with the Film Development Council.

Dr. Julian Vassallo, Political Counselor of the European Union Delegation to the Philippines, with Dominador Co, executive assistant for tourism of Iloilo City and Wilma Isleta of the Film Development Council of the Philippines opened Cine Europa at the Cinematheque 芒鈧€?Iloilo which underlined the strong cultural collaboration of the European Union and the Philippines.

Vassallo acknowledged the full support of the Film Development Council of the Philippines which has endeavored to bring Cine Europa to other parts of the Philippines.

Admission to the film screenings is free on a first-come, first-served basis.

Now on its 16th year, Cine Europa is reaching more Filipinos than ever before with screenings right across the country. With its expansion from three to six cities last year, attendance has increased by a quarter from 29,000 in 2011 to 36,500 in 2012.

With numerous award winning European movies including romantic musicals, wartime movies, historical dramas, family comedies and even world class documentaries, there really is something for everyone at Cine Europa 16.

The film festival opened at the Shangri-La Plaza which screened European Films until Sept. 15. After the Manila, Baguio and Iloilo legs, Cine Europa 16 will then move on to Ayala Center, Cebu City from Oct. 4-6; Liceo de Cagayan University from Oct. 10-13 芒鈧€?Liceo de Cagayan University and finally in Cinematheque Davao City from Oct. 15-20.

Cine Europa 16 is organized by the European Union Cultural Group in Manila which gathers together the Embassies and Cultural Institutes of the European Union (Representations in Manila including the Embassies of Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, Romania, Spain, Slovak Republic, Sweden, Switzerland, United Kingdom, the Delegation of the European Union to the Philippines and the European cultural institutes (Alliance Fran脙搂aise, British Council, Goethe-institut, Philippine-Italian Association, and Instituto Cervantes de Manila,. the Film Development Council of the Philippines, the Independent Film Cooperative, the Shangri-La Plaza Mall (Manila), Arts Council of Cebu and Liceo de Cagayan de Oro (Mindanao). Philstar.com and Porsche Design support Cine Europa 16.

Website: http://www.eeas.europa.eu/delegations/philippines

Facebook: EU Delegation to the Philippines"
"LOS BA脩OS, Laguna 鈥?She was a lot more than just the perky 鈥渟ampaguita girl,鈥?who was found brutally raped and murdered right in the heart of a university community.

Rochel Geronda was 14 when she was killed on Feb. 29, only four months after the rape-slay of University of the Philippines Los Ba帽os (UPLB) student Given Grace Cebanico. On March 4, another UPLB student, Ray Bernard Pe帽aranda, was also killed by robbers, leaving a deep, painful scar on students and their families.

ADVERTISEMENT

鈥淚 myself got so scared that I wouldn鈥檛 go out at night. Because whether these were isolated cases, you couldn鈥檛 help but wonder why these happened, almost one after another just in a single year,鈥?said 22-year-old fourth-year communication arts student Pol Singson.

On Dec. 6, two more UPLB students, Mark Lorenz Valdez and Kevin Lagadon, both 18, died inside the UPLB compound, although authorities said they drowned in a stream up in Mt. Makiling.

Still, Singson observed there were no such incidents of killings and accidental deaths since the 1993 double murder of UPLB students Eileen Sarmenta and Allan Gomez. This prompted him and UP Open University Associate in Arts student Matt Baguinon to collaborate on the documentary film, 鈥淩ochel.鈥?
鈥淩ochel鈥?is a one-hour film that chronicles the everyday life of Leilani Geronda and her four other young children, after her daughter Rochel was killed.

Almost every day since they started filming in June, Baguinon, who is also taking part in a one-year filmmaking workshop of Goethe-institut, joined the Gerondas the moment the children left for school and Leilani started attending to her sari-sari store.

Goethe-institut is a cultural institute of the Federal Republic of Germany.

鈥淗ere is a mother who is coping with the loss of her daughter with a case still ongoing and at the same time making ends meet for her other children,鈥?Singson said of Leilani.

Rochel鈥檚 family lived in a slum area in Barangay Batong Malake here. Her father rarely came home from working as a cigarette vendor in Manila, while her three older siblings lived separately with their own families. The fourth in a brood of eight, Rochel, who was a student at Los Ba帽os National High School, had to sell sampaguita leis after school hours inside the campus to help in the family鈥檚 expenses.

鈥淭hey are struggling but they don鈥檛 make their lives pitiful. The children are raised to be obedient and disciplined. Many do not value education, but these children, they even get mad when they are late for school,鈥?Singson said.

ADVERTISEMENT

He said it was the everyday conversations of the family and the neighborhood that 鈥渉umanized鈥?Rochel in the film.

The film focused on Rochel not only because her case, among those of the victims, received less attention. Born and raised here, Rochel 鈥渃ould be [a] more compelling and relevant character as [she] presents to the audience what their community has become,鈥?Singson said.

鈥淚t is a social commentary. It presents different dimensions 鈥攆rom a mother searching for justice, to politics. While many nowadays are busy talking about gadgets and the menial stuff, these people talk about the security in their community,鈥?he said.

鈥淩ochel鈥?was first shown on Dec. 12 at the Goethe-institut panel in UP Diliman and is set to be screened on Jan. 18 and 19, 2013 in UPLB.

INQUIRER.net wants to hear from you! Take part in our reader survey and help us be better. Click on this image to answer.

Your subscription could not be saved. Please try again. Your subscription has been successful. Subscribe to our daily newsletter SIGN ME UP

Read Next

Follow @maricarcincoINQ on Twitter"
"It was pouring rain outside, but inside, it was packed with men of substance and stature. Occasion was the grand sixth anniversary celebration of Go Negosyo, the movement which promotes the entrepreneurial spirit to empower millions of Filipinos, palanggas.

The celebration was led by Go Negosyo founder Joey Concepcion, who was also celebrating a new page in his life. He said he chose to celebrate his birthday with the growing Go Negosyo community of advocates, entrepreneurs, partners and pals so as to make the day more meaningful.

Joey recently landed in Forbes Asia鈥檚 鈥?8 Heroes of Philanthropy List for 2011.鈥?
He thanked his Go Negosyo community, 鈥淚鈥檓 happy and proud for another memorable feat that further proved their goal of addressing poverty in the country by engaging in entrepreneurship.鈥?
Helping Joey in entertaining the guests was, of course, Marissa Orosa Concepcion, dahlings.

Take that well-deserved bow, palangga!

Birthdays at Nuvo

It was a Saturday to be envied, dahlings, when our town鈥檚 beautiful people came like a swarm of bees to Nuvo, natch!, to celebrate several birthdays put together.

Among the celebrators were DHL country manager and art collector Duncan Gates, Luxasia鈥檚 Sigrid Villamil, Jeremy Bates, Kailash Ramchandani, Tere Ribano and Makati Shangri-La鈥檚 Tracey Fragante.

The monthly birthday happening is held for all those namedropables celebrating another year of their fast life.

In the usual Nuvo flair, these celebrators were gifted with super products from Issey Miyake, Bulgari and Skyy Vodka.

The joint bash was held at Nuvo鈥檚 swinging mezzanine floor where you can get your, 鈥渟moke fix,鈥?palanggas.

Regular Nuvo clientele enjoyed their dinner and after-dinner drinks on the first floor where smoking is not allowed and at the patio outside were one can drink, eat, chat and watch the parade of beautiful people around Greenbelt 2, palanggas.

For Nuvo reservations, call 7573698 or 99 or 8136978.

Rizal celebration at SM City Calamba

鈥淢y City, My SM鈥?launch at SM City Calamba was a smashing success, dahlings. It was perfectly timed for the [email protected], the national celebration honoring the national hero on the 150th anniversary of his birth.

For the event, SM City Calamba honored two modern-day heroes from Rizal鈥檚 hometown鈥攁dvertising executive, writer and entrepreneur Barbara Gonzalez, who鈥檚 a great grand niece of Rizal; and Marc Cosico of the Philippine High School of the Arts.

In connection with Rizal鈥檚 birth anniversary, the German Embassy and the Goethe-Insitut have been commissioned by the National Library to restore the original manuscript of the book, 鈥淣oli Me Tangere,鈥?which was printed in Berlin in 1887.

Barbie Atienza emceed.

The event began with an awesome performance of the Tagalog version of 鈥淭he Prayer鈥?by young singers Abigail and Irish Bolante, with a replica of the Rizal Shrine as a dramatic stage backdrop.

Carlos Arnaldo, archivist of the Knights of Rizal, gave a talk on 鈥淩izal and his Travels.鈥?He traced Rizal鈥檚 footsteps around Europe, travels that led to the hero鈥檚 self-discovery, and eventually greatness, as images of the key cities were shown.

Architect Veronica Dado of the National Historical Commission of the Philippines unveiled a replica of St. Stephen鈥檚 Cathedral in Vienna where Rizal worshipped; while Czech Republic counselor and deputy head of mission Jiri Vobis showed invitees a replica of the Blaue Stern Hotel where Rizal stayed when he was in Prague.

Jose Rizal Essay-Writing Contest winner Joaquin de Jesus read his winning piece on the friendship of Rizal and Ferdinand Blumentritt, dahlings.

The French Embassy鈥檚 audiovisual attach茅 Martin Macalintal showed a reproduction of Juan Luna鈥檚 鈥淭he Parisian Life,鈥?which was beside a replica of the French landmark, the Arc de Triomphe.

Instituto Cervantes de Manila director Jose Rodriguez gamely read a copy of La Solidaridad in a bench in front of a replica of the Jose Rizal statue in Madrid, Spain; while Goethe-institut鈥檚 Luisa Zaide unveiled a replica of the University of Heidelberg where Rizal practiced ophthalmology.

[email protected] is one of the many exciting events of SM Supermalls, naturellement."
"By the end of this school year, a group of Filipino high school students will be saying 鈥済uten tag鈥?(good day) as they find better opportunities on their way to college and beyond.

Twelve Philippine public high schools are set to graduate the first batch of students in a special German language program, a two-year beginner鈥檚 course introduced last year through a partnership between the Department of Education (DepEd) and the Goethe-institut, Germany鈥檚 cultural institution.

ADVERTISEMENT

鈥淲e signed a memorandum of understanding with DepEd last year and we have agreed to introduce German in the curriculum of high school students on a pilot program,鈥?said Helmut Frielinghaus, Goethe-institut language consultant in Manila.

Chosen by DepEd for their high achievement rates, the schools conduct intensive German language training for up to 25 of their top students four hours a week.

After undergoing intensive training during the long school break, a total of 40 teachers continue to improve their German on Saturdays. German trainers assist in the preparation of lessons for the students.

Goethe-institut initiated the program to boost the qualifications of Philippine graduates and enhance their chances of getting German university scholarships and jobs in German firms in the Philippines, in Germany and other parts of the world, said Frielinghaus.

鈥淲e have a huge demand (for people who speak German) in the Philippine job market. We also have many offers and study possibilities in Germany for Filipinos,鈥?Frielinghaus said.

German is among the foreign languages currently taught in selected Philippine public high schools. The other languages are Spanish, French and Japanese.

Frielinghaus told the Inquirer that there were more job offers than possible employees because German and other foreign languages were not included in the basic education curriculum.

He said German companies operating in the Philippines, among them information technology and outsourcing firms, were offering an increasing number of jobs for German-speaking Filipinos but could not find qualified employees.

Goethe-institut also hopes to see more Filipino students apply for scholarships in German universities.

ADVERTISEMENT

Thousands of slots are available in undergraduate and master鈥檚 programs鈥攂oth in English and German鈥攊n German universities, mostly state-funded institutions, for students from around the world.

鈥淭here is this fast-growing job market and there is this huge offer for Filipino students going to Germany to study in high-quality study programs for free,鈥?Frielinghaus said.

Meanwhile, Goethe-institut expressed support for the K+12 program, DepEd鈥檚 plan to make the Philippine education cycle the same as the rest of the world鈥檚 and to make high school graduates more employable with an additional two years of schooling.

He said Goethe-institut could assist in the implementation of the program that would give Filipino high school graduates a direct track to foreign universities as most require 12 years of basic education for admission.

INQUIRER.net wants to hear from you! Take part in our reader survey and help us be better. Click on this image to answer.

Your subscription could not be saved. Please try again. Your subscription has been successful. Subscribe to our daily newsletter SIGN ME UP

Read Next"
"South African actors John Kani (left, as 'Creon') and Winston Ntshona (1941-2018, as 'Antigone') perform at the final dress rehearsal of the Market Theatre of Johannesburg/Royal National Theatre revival of Athol Fugard's 'The Island' at the Brooklyn Academy of Music Harvey Theater, Brooklyn, New York, New York, March 31, 2003. Kani and Ntshona co-authored the play with Athol Fugard in 1973. (Photo by Jack Vartoogian/Getty Images)

South Africa鈥檚 formal theatre tradition dates back to the 1830s, when Andrew Geddes Bains鈥?Kaatje Kekkelbek was performed in 1838 by the Grahamstown Amateur Company. In South Africa, the artform came into its own during the apartheid years, particularly the protest theatre of the 1970s and 1980s.The South African Cultural Observatory鈥檚 Covid-19 impact report indicated that performing arts was the most vulnerable of all the cultural sectors. As a result of the lockdown, theatres were closed or running at limited capacity, leaving artists without income for a substantial time.

Other problems are a lack of audience development caused by the inaccessibility of theatre spaces for ordinary South Africans, a lack of early exposure to theatre in the educational system, declining media support and a lack of marketing that speaks to specific target audiences.

In his book, The South African Consumer Landscape, Paul Egan writes how working-class South Africans account for 25% of the share of the country鈥檚 consumer income, which translates to R520-billion a year. One could argue that the South African economy is carried on the back of the working class. The working class鈥?wages account for the biggest market share of consumption, which translates into billions of profits for companies. What these companies have successfully done is to look beyond stereotypical views of the working class 鈥?which can be characterised by the title of the Mbongeni Ngema鈥檚 play Asinamali 鈥?but rather look to them as people who can afford goods and services that can dance to the rhythm of lives.

Another group of people, who could be characterised by the Zakes Mda play, The Mother of All Eating, are cash cows to big corporations that have milked millions by creating goods and services that speak to their aspirations and desires.

What theatre needs to be sustainable is to find its way into the hearts and, most importantly, the wallets of these two groups. The department of sports, arts and culture鈥檚 1996 White Paper on arts, culture and heritage places more emphasis on theatre being a tool of social cohesion and nation-building than it being a tool for job creation.

However, with recent updates to the White Paper, in particular the 2017 version, one sees theatre transcending the strategic vision of social cohesion and nation-building to become an economic site for job creation, investment opportunities and economic growth. An example of this is how the White Paper states 鈥渟ubsidised playhouses are required to generate revenue at a minimum of 40% of their return on investment on their production costs through box office, sponsorship and other income-generating activities鈥?

Strategic investment needs to happen on how to transform our stories embodied in theatre form into gold that we can cultivate, refine and take to the world. Theatre spaces need to be rigorous in their approach to how they become economic drivers and enablers for economic growth.

Susan Bennet touches on this in her essay Theorizing Globalization through Theatre (2005) by looking into how cities could become sites of cultural production, whereby the theatre forms part of the ecology, where investment in the tourism sector feeds back into the theatre sector.

鈥淭hrough case studies of theatre and theatricalisation in New York City and Las Vegas, 鈥楾heatre/Touris鈥?explores how cultural practices have been harnessed as a powerful marketing strategy in the branding of cities, and how this has impacted the nature and reach of theatrical production. For this reason, corporate entertainment interests have increasingly understood the value of the tourist spectator and have developed theatre products to underpin a complex tourism 鈥榚cology鈥?鈥?
Puckish humor: Sello Make; top; and Louis Seboko; stars of Woza Albert!; currently at Toronto Workshop; take humorous digs at Pretoria鈥檚 white rulers in their two-man play. (Photo by Frank Lennon/Toronto Star via Getty Images)

Theatre spaces evolve into tourist attractions. An example of is The Market Theatre in Johannesburg, which forms part of the culture precinct of Newtown.

One of the ways it can begin to do that is through audience development. To a certain degree, it is a myth that people don鈥檛 have money. But they are certainly specific about where they choose to spend their money.

Theatre suffers from the stigma of being a elite art form due to how early exposure remains accessible to a privileged few. Even in the communities in which theatre spaces are found, locals often don鈥檛 feel like custodians of the institutions.

Yet the past is very different. Protest theatre had the ability to transition from local community halls to mainstream stages while also cultivating an audience locally and abroad.

An example of this could be seen in how protest theatre productions such as The Island, Woza Albert! and Sarafina continue to be re-staged, drawing in large audiences.

The production The Island by Dr Jerry Mofokeng wa Makhetha recently toured the Free State and the Northern Cape. During one performance where load-shedding hit, the audience refused to leave the venue, lighting the stage with their phones.

Although we no longer live under apartheid, we still grapple with socioeconomic conditions that derive from apartheid. Contemporary theatre makers are still struggling with a commercially viable formula that speaks to these challenges.

Some ingenuity was displayed in how different theatre spaces reacted as Covid-19 attempted to take theatre 鈥渢owards an empty space 鈥? Some theatre spaces and festivals went with the option of streaming their work, while the State Theatre took its shows (Marikana the Musical, Freedom, Askari, Shaka Zulu: The Gaping Wound and Silent Voices) to Ster-Kinekor鈥檚 big screens. This strategy allows for theatre to have a secondary audience and income stream.

This ingenuity has ignited an interesting debate on form and the possibilities for the future of theatre. Loyalty programmes in theatre spaces, such as the State Theatre鈥檚 sales ambassadors programme, can be considered.

Encouragingly, while doors of other theatre spaces have shut down, others have opened up, such as the Tx Theatre in Tembisa and The Shack Theatre in Khayelitsha.

The road to more audiences is full of dramatic twists and turns but a worthwhile one because story is a way of making sense of the world.

This article was produced as part of a partnership between the Mail & Guardian and the Goethe-institut, focusing on sustainability and the arts"
"In the past few decades the Johannesburg inner city, like many urban centres worldwide, has become home to painters, photographers, printers and their imaginative brethren. In the surrounding buildings, behind walls and in sun-dappled studios, there鈥檚 a corresponding energy as artists create magic like modern-day alchemists.

The inner city鈥檚 large lofts and converted industrial spaces are a natural fit for the creative process.

Even William Kentridge, the greatest of the contemporary South African art world, has his studio and interdisciplinary incubator space, The Centre for the Less Good Idea, in Maboneng on the edge of the city centre.

Usually opportunities to visit working studios are few 鈥?or perhaps for a suburban dweller unsure of how to navigate the busy city, a little daunting. But thanks to Open Studios Joburg, these spaces have become more accessible.

Studio mix

On 28 and 29 May, a weekend-long arts festival will highlight seven 鈥渁rt buildings鈥?and open the doors to the studios of close to 100 working artists (two spaces in Brixton, Lapa at Breezeblock and Shade, joined as a partner venue).

The buildings involved in Open Studios Joburg run from the Bag Factory Artists鈥?Studios and Lapa at Breezeblock on the western side of the city to August House, Ellis House, the Living Artists Emporium, Transwerke Studios and Victoria Yards in the east and north. Visitors will have the chance to meet artists, explore their studios and enjoy exhibitions, walkabouts and performances. There will also be safe parking and a shuttle service running to move the keen culture vulture from building to building.

Lapa at Breezeblock in Brixton, Johannesburg, is where the Goethe-institut hosts artists.

Photos: Paul Botes



Sara Hallatt is the brain behind the event. She鈥檚 also director of the Meta Foundation, an organisation that focuses on August House鈥檚 programmes, visual artist development and support. Hallatt was the director of the Bag Factory for seven years, so she knows the Jozi art scene better than most.

鈥淥pen Studios provides an honest and uncomplicated way for people to better understand the visual arts, with less opportunity to feel intimidated,鈥?she says. 鈥淭hese are laid-back working spaces that are very friendly for people to visit.鈥?
Although there is little doubt that inner city degeneration is a largely negative phenomenon, the flight of big business and an evolving city have at the same time created opportunities for artists.

鈥淎ll over the world, artists occupy the spaces that are 鈥榝orgotten鈥?about. They are typically early adopters, not afraid of innovation or development. For this reason, they often are brought in to gentrify an area. And then as spaces become more expensive, they are ironically often pushed out,鈥?says Hallatt.

She adds that the studio buildings represented in the upcoming event have a history in the city. They鈥檝e done important work in helping the artists in their buildings market and develop their practice.

And although all these artistic hives have welcomed guests at one point or another for exhibitions and events, Open Studios Joburg is an exercise in how working together to promote the network of artists in the city centre will be beneficial for everyone.

鈥淭hrough the trials and tribulations of Covid, we have found that to work together is substantially more beneficial than trying to go it alone. We also believe that the event provides a unique experience that is not provided by an art fair or a gallery opening because guests are able to meet the artist in their 鈥榥atural habitat鈥?鈥?says Hallatt.

August and more

For nearly two decades August House has been a focal point for Joburg鈥檚 art community. This nondescript five-storey yellow brick building in Doornfontein houses more than 50 independent artists鈥?studios. Sam Nhlengethwa works from August House and notable past tenants include Lawrence Lemaoana, Mary Sibande and Nicholas Hlobo.

Creative spaces: August House, previously a factory built in the 1940 in Doornfontein is now known as the artist鈥檚 playground. Photos: Paul Botes

Artist and printmaker Michele Rolstone, who lives and works in the building, says there are numerous reasons she is city-based. 鈥淭here aren鈥檛 many places that offer the same space and community like August House does. The city is alive in a way that the suburbs just aren鈥檛 (sorry suburbia), and I think I am alive in a different way since being here.鈥?
鈥淚 feel more aware and connected, in the best and worst possible ways. I came to Joburg looking for change, to grow both as an artist and a human. The city has certainly provided that in ways I could never have predicted.鈥?
Although born in Cape Town, visual artist and August House tenant Vivien Kohler also chooses to work from the city centre because 鈥渋t鈥檚 a melting pot of various peoples from a multitude of socioeconomic and racial backgrounds. This cosmopolitan cross section is a microcosm of South Africa鈥檚 sociopolitical and socioeconomic landscape and affords me and other artists the opportunity to gain ideas and understanding from the ground up.鈥?
Unlike a gallery or museum, where audiences simply view a completed artwork, Open Studios Joburg will lift the veil on the various stages of the creative process. As Kohler notes, 鈥淵ou鈥檒l get to see finished works, unfinished works, works in its initial sketched stages. You鈥檒l get to see the artist鈥檚 studio and the various materials they use, which makes their works unique.鈥?
The must-see list

The two-day programme is jam-packed, but here are some highlights to look out for.

The Bag Factory Artists鈥?Studios is a nonprofit visual arts organisation in Fordsburg. Over its three-decade history, the space has housed the studios and workshops of Jozi legends such as Kagiso Patrick Mautloa and David Koloane. On Saturday, 28 May, Joburg Experiences II, a pop-up salon-style exhibition made up of pieces from the studio鈥檚 extensive collection, will be on view. This is a must-see if you missed their knock-out retrospective The Bag Factory 30 Years: So Far, the Future at the Fada Gallery last year.

The Transwerke Studio opened in 2018. Located in Hillbrow and part of the Constitution Hill Precinct, this striking art deco building was designed by renowned architect Gordon Leith. Over its history, the building has been a maternity hospital and residence for midwives. This grand dame has found a new purpose as a hub for artists, designers and other creatives. On 28 May, several of the studios in the building will be open, and there will also be a live poetry session.

Transwerke Studios, near Constitution Hill in Braamfontein, Johannesburg, was a maternity hospital. In 2018 it was converted into a hub for artists and designers.

Photos: Paul Botes



If you need a refreshment break on 28 May, Charlie and Gerald鈥檚 Town Treasure, located just behind Gandhi Square, is the ideal pitstop. Set in a historic bank vault, this quirky stop will be offering drinks and food throughout the day.

With more that 50 artists working from the building, exploring August House should keep you busy. On top of their open studios, two curated exhibitions and a walkabout on 29 May, Buka Arts Academy will host a children鈥檚 art area where you and the little members of the family can get hands-on.

Creative spaces: August House, previously a factory built in the 1940 in Doornfontein (top) is now known as the artist鈥檚 playground. Photos: Paul Botes

Join artist Hannelie Coetzee for a walkabout at Victoria Yards on Sunday, 29 May. She will lead an exploration of her newest sculpture and eco-artwork, The Praying Mantis. It鈥檚 a three-metre steel and wood artwork that will act as an insect hotel.

Victoria yards

Open Studios Joburg is on 28 and 29 May, when selected studios will be open. A free shuttle service will transport visitors safely every 15 minutes. Book your free ticket on Quicket and see open studios.joburg for programme updates"
"Asinamali! The name of Mbongeni Ngema鈥檚 play is also the cry of workers in the performing arts industry

鈥楬ow do we heal the relationship that we have with spaces that give us resources so that we recognise our inherent value and we are not always the needy people that need to be saved?鈥?asks Nwabisa Plaatjie, a playwright.

The destabilising nature of the Covid-19-induced lockdowns put a spotlight on the precarity and vulnerability faced by all who work in theatre and dance. As the economy staggers to its feet, artists continue to face income insecurity.

The rallying cry of 鈥淎sinamali鈥?made famous by Mbongeni Ngema鈥檚 1980s play, recently revived at the National Arts Festival in Makhanda, could easily reverberate around the performing arts today. It is certainly the feeling of many young artists. Xolisile Bongwana, dancer and musician, decried the lack of a stable income in the industry saying that 鈥渟ometimes it鈥檚 good and sometimes it鈥檚 bad鈥? It鈥檚 a sentiment shared by Tiisetso Mashifane wa Noni, a playwright and educator: 鈥淚n the performing arts you can鈥檛 just do one thing; you鈥檒l find yourself in a very tricky position most of the time.鈥?
This instability forces artists to constantly be seeking out their next paying project or supplementing their income through other trades. And, as Mashifane wa Noni points out, this state of insecurity for the majority of those in the sector contrasts with that of those 鈥渨orking in the structure of a theatre. [For example], the marketing person or a creative director or artistic director or CEO or something like that.鈥?The implication is that the full-time employees of performing arts institutions are protected by labour law and have stable incomes.

Addressing this core need for stable income is no simple task. The performing artist as worker, individually and collectively, has little recourse in matters of labour relations, bargaining power, nor broader social security. This is a critical issue that occupies the sector and has manifested in recent campaigns.

The Charter for Rights of South African Artists launched by #IM4THEARTS and the Theatre and Dance Alliance (TADA) in 2021 asserts 鈥渢he right to work and to offer our labour in whatever form we choose: as full-time employees, part-time employees, independent contractors, freelance or self-employed workers, which forms shall not preclude us from the rights and protections afforded other workers鈥? Two recent policy interventions attempt to extend these labour protections to artists.

On the back of the activism of arts organisations, the first policy intervention wants to secure a sectoral determination through the department of employment and labour. This would see freelance artists 鈥渞ecognised as 鈥榚mployees鈥?with the definition in the Labour Relations Act (LRA) extended to include contract workers/independent contract workers, which are overwhelmingly those engaged in our sector, but are excluded from the benefits and protections of the LRA as they are not 鈥榚mployees鈥? explains veteran playwright and arts activist Mike van Graan.

The South African Guild of Actors has led the call for the sectorial determination within the context of film and television. They have now drawn in TADA to coordinate the campaign to ensure that the final policy takes into account the dynamics of live performance as well. This goes a way to closing the sharp inequality pointed out by Mashifane wa Noni.

The second policy development marks a huge step forward for the department of sport, arts and culture, which has paid lip service to policy development and adoption during Minister Nathi Mthethwa鈥檚 time in office.

Breathing New Vision into Theatre and Dance in South Africa is the title of a recently released policy document for public consultation. The policy was drafted by Van Graan, David April, Bobby Rodwell and Lebogang Nawa. Those familiar with the Stand Foundation鈥檚 Vision Discussion Document of September 2020 will see the strong resemblance. This demonstrates the capacity of civil society to shape policy priorities.

As Van Graan describes it, 鈥淭he policy recommends a fundamental shift away from public sector support for expensive infrastructure (basically inappropriate theatres inherited from apartheid) to theatre and dance companies employing practitioners, in each province 鈥?[alongside a] recommendation for a national circuit with at least one subsidised venue per province, a network of festivals, etc, that create circuits for the longer circulation of work. Those are just two points in this regard. And then, of course, there are the proposals for a stronger social benefit net for the sector.鈥?
The ambitiously titled policy document reads as a system reset button.

To see through the adoption and implementation of this bold policy, sustained levels of organising in the industry are essential. Reflecting on the rise in mobilisation and emergence of new organisations, Plaatjie said she 鈥渉onestly thought they were a new thing and [I] was excited. It felt like we were coming together only to find out that there have been people doing this type of organising since the 1980s and the early 1990s so it feels like an opportunity once again to build together.鈥?
Protest theatre: Ubuntu Arts and dancers performed during the Cape artists鈥?protest against the National Arts Council and the department of sports, arts and culture over funding connected to the Presidential Economic Stimulus Plan in response to the pandemic. (Brenton Geach/Gallo Images)

It appears that there has been a loss of momentum which risks the loss of institutional knowledge if contemporary efforts do not learn from their predecessors鈥? Perhaps this is what Van Graan gestures towards in saying, 鈥淭he sector has been apathetic 鈥?and still largely is 鈥?about the macro issues that affect it; Covid was a wake-up call, but there still is not anywhere near the levels of engagement, knowledge and activism required of the sector if it is to secure a more sustainable practice for itself.鈥?
The proliferation of organisations is an attempt to address this but they have yet to deepen their base.

At least five organisations emerged focused on theatre and dance at an industry wide level. These were #IM4TheArts, Theatre and Dance Employers Association of South Africa, Stand Foundation, South African United Cultural and Creative Industries Federation, and TADA. They share the value of harnessing the energy of many stakeholders. Other than the Stand Foundation, they are representative bodies allowing for either individual or organisational membership. They

reflect the widespread consensus that the Cultural and Creative Industries Federation of South Africa established in 2015 by the then department of arts and culture has failed to represent artists鈥?interests even as the lockdowns ravaged the industry.

With more platforms to raise concerns about the industry, Plaatjie highlights what is required for this increased mobilisation to be effective. 鈥淚f you are in an alliance then you need to know how to participate in that alliance. And without the education, without the resources, without the knowledge of what the topics you are delving in are or the policies that need to change are, it becomes very hard to engage and to participate.鈥?
She continues to make an example of how this may be seen in low engagement with the draft policy.

As we celebrate the emergence of new organisations, it is helpful to reflect on how they are capturing the interests of the artists they seek to represent. Bongwana and Mashifane wa Noni offer differing opinions on this matter, which may be indicative of the considerations of other young people in the sector. In response to the question of whether they feel that their interests are represented in the new organisations, Bongwana said, 鈥淭his is a question I鈥檓 also asking myself 鈥?if I鈥檓 being represented well at times.鈥?
He said he would feel more represented if he saw arts organisations campaigning robustly toward a universal basic income grant.

Mashifane wa Noni, who has 鈥渄abbled in one or two of these organisations鈥? said her 鈥渋nterests are represented鈥?

Protest theatre: Ubuntu Arts and dancers performed during the Cape artists鈥?protest against the National Arts Council and the department of sports, arts and culture over funding connected to the Presidential Economic Stimulus Plan in response to the pandemic. (Alet Pretorius/ Gallo Images)

She believes that through participation, albeit limited, she has seen 鈥渢he extent of the work that 鈥?needs to be done to overhaul the sector鈥?

I had set out to write about the specific labour conditions needed for artists in the dance and theatre sector to sustain their livelihoods, but what emerged most clearly through discussions with artists and the multiple policy interventions is that the rise in mobilisation in the sector is the means and the end to improving circumstances. Without romanticising the power of social movements, past and present, there are some useful lessons to be drawn from their experience.

Their historical record demonstrates the power of unity, combining shop floor and community issues, as well as widespread political education in achieving and protecting important gains for their constituencies. So, for artists to see a marked difference in their livelihoods, they need to harness and build on the nascent movements.

This article was produced as part of a partnership between the Mail & Guardian and the Goethe-institut, focusing on sustainability and the arts"
"The Goethe-institut South Africa is pleased to announce the successful rollout of the #EveryGamerCounts project. The project is the first of its kind in South Africa with the aim to champion diversity and inclusion in esports and gaming. #EveryGamerCounts hosted Game Jams and online discussions during the months of August and September 2022 in townships in and around Gauteng.

By organising game jams and panel discussions, where experts from all over the world discussed current issues in e-sports and the gaming community, the project challenged the existing stereotypes and raised awareness of the obstacles faced by women, minorities and people with disabilities in the industry.

To complement the Game Jams and discussions, the inaugural #EveryGamerCounts project has curated a number of conversations and industry panels with trailblazing gamers to change the narrative and inspire an inclusive and diverse community of gamers. 鈥淒iversity is a critical questioning of representation and access is an important topic in our work,鈥?says Nesa Fr枚hlich, Regional Head of Information at the Goethe-institut South Africa. She continues:鈥淒iverse realities can only be represented when we actively create possibilities and spaces for women, minorities, and underrepresented groups to access the games and esports industry and enable the creation of their own realities in the digital worlds.鈥?
Together, we are thus working for more equal opportunities to contribute to a higher proportion of women, minorities and underrepresented groups in the computer games industry and to more diversity in computer games in the medium term. In doing so the project has also been recognised by the Women In Games Awards for the Games or ESport, Diversity Initiative award.

#EveryGamerCounts draws a curtain to an impressive inaugural edition with a host of activities, including hybrid panel discussions and Game Jams taking place online and at the Goethe-institut Johannesburg premises.

See below list of activities taking place:

EVENTS

16 September

RE-IMAGINING THE GAME CYCLE: REPRESENTATION IN GAME CONTENT AND CONTENT CREATORS:

6:00 PM 鈥?7:30 PM 鈥?| Hybrid Panel Discussion

#EVERYGAMERCOUNTS FINAL GAME JAM:

6:00 PM 鈥?9:00 PM 鈥?| Hybrid Game Jam (Online & Goethe-institut Johannesburg)

17 September

#EVERYGAMERCOUNTS FINAL GAME JAM:

9:00 AM 鈥?3:00 PM 鈥?| Hybrid Game Jam (Online & Goethe-institut Johannesburg)

18 September

#EVERYGAMERCOUNTS FINAL GAME JAM:

11:00 AM 鈥?3:00 PM 鈥?| Hybrid Game Jam (Online & Goethe-institut Johannesburg)

16 October

#EVERYGAMERCOUNTS presentation @Fakugesi Festival

November TBC

Panel discussion with Goethe-institut Rumani

To register for the Hybrid Discussion and Game Jams please follow the link below: https://forms.gle/JHyV8oDweNT1LXda8

For more information, visit our website or contact Menzi Mhlongo, Communications coordinator: menzimhl@gmail.com

Sponsored Content"
"Children at the Happy Sabby Day Care Centre in Pretoria. Every child has a constitutional right to a name and nationality, but thousands are unregistered each year, according to Lawyers for Human Rights. (Photo by Gallo Images/Lefty Shivambu)

Sunday, 21 March is a standout day for civil society the world over. In South Africa, we will mark Human Rights Day. It is also the start of the International Week of Solidarity with the Peoples Struggling against Racism and Racial Discrimination, with the theme of 鈥淵outh standing up against racism鈥? It is World Poetry Day, World Down Syndrome Day as well as the International Day of Forests.

As ever, this week civil society discusses and plans how to protect human rights more quickly and more meaningfully 鈥?from a child鈥檚 right to a name and nationality, to the world鈥檚 right to a fairly priced and accessible Covid-19 vaccine:

On Monday, 15 March, Lawyers for Human Rights will hold a live discussion on access to birth registration in South Africa. Every child has a constitutional right to a name and nationality, but thousands are unregistered each year, according to the organisation. Members of its Statelessness Project will take questions on this issue on the organisation鈥檚 Facebook page at 2pm.

Later that day, there will be a digital citizen rights workshop presented by Media Monitoring Africa, the Goethe-institut and the German Embassy to give a South African and international perspective on digital citizen rights as they relate to freedom of expression, security, privacy and access. Reserve your spot here.

On Tuesday, 16 March, rights activists Nolundi Luwaya and Mavuso Msimang will be in conversation with Maverick Citizen journalist Zukiswa Pikoli to unpack the Traditional Courts Bill. The bill was tabled more than a decade ago and now Parliament has referred it for legal opinion to test whether it is in line with the Constitution. Join the webinar here at 12pm.

What is the 鈥減rice tag鈥?of achieving global vaccine herd immunity and where will the money come from? This will be discussed on Tuesday, 16 March during a webinar hosted by the Duke Global Health Institute. On the expert panel is the founder of the Health Justice Initiative, Fatima Hassan. Register for the 8am webinar here.

On Wednesday, 17 March, leaders of organisations such as Amnesty International, the International Commission of Jurists, Oxfam and the Health Justice Initiative will unpack equitable Covid-19 vaccine access in southern Africa. To join the discussion at 10am, RSVP to [email protected].

On Thursday, 18 March, Professor Thuli Madonsela will facilitate a discussion between chief director of curriculum in the Department of Basic Education, Seliki Tlhabane, law student Hlonelwa Luthuli and experiential education adviser Kat Roodt on social justice in education. Join here.

Later that day, the early childhood development sector will reflect on the upswell of unity and advocacy in the past year to keep their centres open and safe for children. Executive director and founder of the Equality Collective, Tess Peacock, will ask Equal Education general secretary Noncedo Madubedube and Maverick Citizen editor Mark Heywood about what the sector can learn from the activism of others. Join here at 2pm.

Meanwhile, experts in nutrition, urban planning and non-communicable diseases will unpack the link between access to safe and nutritious food and non-communicable diseases in South Africa. About 51% of South Africa鈥檚 annual deaths are attributed to non-communicable diseases. The webinar will tackle what to do about it. Register here for the discussion at 2pm. DM/MC."
"The Diary of Anne Frank, now universally praised as a talented young writer鈥檚 harrowing account of Jewish suffering under Nazi Germany, is also an unlikely resource for post-apartheid South Africa and its relationship with the Afrikaans language. In one passage, Anne makes reference to the house rules while in hiding: 鈥淯se of language: It is necessary to speak softly at all times. Only the language of civilised people may be spoken, thus no German.鈥?
This stinging rebuke of the German language may seem unjust, but at the time German was the language of the Nazis and was sentenced to widespread public denigration as a result. And just as the Nazis repurposed and refined the German language to serve Hitler鈥檚 nationalist agenda, so the apartheid government promoted Afrikaans as the superior language of what it deemed to be the superior race 鈥?whites.

Yet we forget that neither the Nazis nor the Nats created the German and Afrikaans languages, they merely appropriated them as linguistic vessels for their warped ideologies. The problem is that long after these regimes fell, their language of operation, and those who speak it, are seemingly destined to carry the collective guilt of the atrocities committed through their words.

Post-Nazi Germany is an incredibly introspective nation even 75 years after the Nazis鈥?demise, but the German language has long since shaken off its label of uncivilised. With Germany鈥檚 rapid development as a peaceful, democratic nation, so German has morphed into a global language of commerce, diplomacy and cutting-edge technology. Germans are proud of their linguistic heritage, and schools such as the Goethe-institut now promote and teach German in countries across the world to millions of prospective and eager students. What lessons can post-apartheid South Africa learn from this? The answer is rather complex for two main reasons.

First, far less time has passed since the fall of apartheid than the fall of Nazi Germany, and South Africa is still a deeply wounded nation. Second, and perhaps most importantly, unlike German, Afrikaans is not the sole official language of its nation, but one of 11. As a result, the Afrikaans language and those who speak it are on the receiving end of the stigma of apartheid, fuelled by living memory of what the National Party committed in the name of white Afrikanerdom.

And so the language鈥檚 default identity is that of racial conservatism, oppression and social elitism. Almost 30 years since apartheid鈥檚 fall, South Africans still struggle to separate the Afrikaans language from the horrors of apartheid, and this stigmatism continues to thwart nation building and reconciliation in democratic South Africa. We see this in the current debate surrounding Stellenbosch University鈥檚 revised language policy.

The rector, Professor Wim de Villiers, has embarked on a controversial change to the university鈥檚 language policy which aims to gradually phase out Afrikaans on campus. The argument is that English is the de facto language of global academia, and that there is a decline in the use of Afrikaans in an academic setting. But it raises the question: is the use of Afrikaans naturally in decline, or is a decline being perpetuated by a policy that seeks to eradicate the language altogether?

I met students from Stellenbosch University a few weeks ago and heard worrying accounts of university residences banning the use of Afrikaans beyond lecture theatres. A culture of intimidation and fear has set in where Afrikaans is disallowed in hallways, on park benches and even in shared bathrooms. It is evident that the university鈥檚 language policy has transcended lingual restriction and is now an open persecution of the Afrikaans language in one of the bastions of Afrikaans academic excellence.

The discussion surrounding this troubling language policy has brought to light the underlying stigma associated with Afrikaans, and now threatens to eradicate the language altogether. But stating this case has made many South Africans uneasy.

Article 29 of the Constitution states:

鈥淓veryone has the right to receive education in the official language or languages of their choice in public educational institutions where that education is reasonably practicable. In order to ensure the effective access to, and implementation of, this right, the state must consider all reasonable educational alternatives, including single-medium institutions, taking into account the need to redress the results of past racially discriminatory laws and practices.鈥?
This part of the Constitution is perhaps where the debate around Afrikaans is most misunderstood. If we assume that Afrikaans is a white language, and one that was singularly developed and promoted by the apartheid government, many people would argue that it no longer requires any form of protection and that English should rightly replace it in traditionally Afrikaans universities. This view would victimise the Afrikaans language and those who speak it as an embodiment of apartheid stigma.

But herein lies the problem: Afrikaans is not a creation of apartheid, and the language is not responsible for what apartheid committed. This way of thought, paradoxically, works against what our Constitution has set out to achieve with regards to language rights in South Africa.

If Article 29 states the obligation to take into account the need to redress the results of past racially discriminatory laws and practices, then Afrikaans is the perfect vessel to do so. As the third-most-spoken home language in South Africa, and with close to 50% of the population of the Western Cape speaking it as a first language, Afrikaans makes up a large chunk of our country鈥檚 linguistic identity.

But more importantly, these statistics prove that Afrikaans is by no means a white language when the vast majority of home-language speakers are coloured. How are we promoting redress by systematically eradicating the first language of an entire demographic that suffered at the hands of apartheid?

What those in favour of Stellenbosch University鈥檚 revised language policy are essentially saying is that coloured South Africans were denied access to education under apartheid because they were not white, and will continue to be denied access to education in post-apartheid South Africa because they鈥檙e too Afrikaans. Ironically, this logic only serves to divide, alienate and oppress our nation in much the same way as the apartheid government.

If the use of Afrikaans at Stellenbosch University is the success story of an official language outside of English, South Africa needs to use this as a case study to enact our Constitution and promote and develop each and every one of our nine other official languages elsewhere. If we don鈥檛 protect Afrikaans now, how are we ever going to protect isiZulu, SeTswana or TshiVenda in future?

But the real victims of Afrikaans stigma are most certainly its white speakers. I am as English as they come, but when I moved to Cape Town seven years ago I was surrounded by Afrikaans in almost every setting. As I made white Afrikaans friends, peers and colleagues, I became aware of something I had previously been oblivious to.

Young, white Afrikaans South Africans live and breathe the stigma that surrounds their language. Afrikaans pride can too easily be misconstrued with the dangers of nationalism, white Afrikaans speakers are often stereotyped as racist and conservative, and the use of Afrikaans is often perceived as a form of racial power play. Much like modern Germans often feel overshadowed by their country鈥檚 past, so white Afrikaners are forced to grapple with the stigma of their language daily, carrying the guilt of actions committed long before their birth.

We continue to unfairly stigmatise our fellow South Africans based purely on the language they speak, a language that predates apartheid. This dangerous social ill only emboldens those who seek to divide us.

Political parties such as the Freedom Front Plus claim to be the sole custodians of the Afrikaans language and culture, further entrenching the stereotype of Afrikaans conservatism and alienating liberal white Afrikaners from the multicultural South African identity.

And coloured nationalist movements such as the Cape Coloured Congress appropriate Afrikaans to entrench their own politics of identity with slogans like 鈥淥ns mense鈥? Ultimately, the more we stigmatise Afrikaans, the more we incentivise its deregulation, and the more we divide South Africans along racial, cultural and linguistic lines. Stigmatising and delegitimising Afrikaans is sending South Africans backwards, and it is doing so at warp speed. We need to sit up and take note of this as a matter of urgency.

Anneliese Sch眉tz, a German translator of a 1950s version of Anne Frank鈥檚 diary, was criticised for compromising her faithfulness to the original text by softening German culpability and blurring any hostile references to the German language in her work. This criticism is where South Africans can learn an important lesson: we cannot erase or blur the past out of shame and guilt, just as we cannot blame a language for the actions carried out in its use.

Afrikaans is a South African language, developed and refined by Malay slaves and the native Khoi as much as the Dutch settlers. It is a language of academia, art, poetry and prose. It is a vital part of our identity whether black or white.

American poet John Ciardi said: 鈥淭ell me how much a nation knows about its own language, and I will tell you how much that nation knows about its own identity.鈥?If we continue to stigmatise Afrikaans and delegitimise its use, we risk erasing a part of our own identity as a nation.

And if Afrikaans falls, which of the other nine South African languages will fall next? DM"
"Patients in the waiting area of Empilisweni Hospital in the Joe Gqabi municipality. (Photo:Felix Dlangamandla)

The World Health Organisation will launch a campaign on World Health Day, Wednesday, 7 April) 鈥渢o build a fairer, healthier world鈥? It will focus on international cooperation, collecting reliable data and increasing investment in primary healthcare.

That day is also the International Day of Reflection on the Genocide in Rwanda 鈥?it has been 27 years since almost one million people were killed in 100 days.

In 2021, the UN will bring together genocide survivors, historians and civil society to discuss 鈥淔rom hate speech to genocide: lessons from the 1994 Genocide against the Tutsi in Rwanda鈥? Attend the virtual event here.

The rest of the week

On Tuesday, 6 April, Corruption Watch will engage with the National Youth Development Agency and the Budget Justice Coalition on the role of corruption in barring young people from opportunities and employment. Join the webinar, 鈥淚s our Future for Sale?鈥? here at 11am.

On Wednesday, 7 April, the People鈥檚 Vaccine Campaign will launch its new Train the Trainers Manual, a tool in the fight against vaccine inequality and vaccine hesitancy. Sign up here to attend the virtual launch at 10am.

On Thursday, 8 April, a panel of land and food activists will discuss the decolonisation of our relationship with plants. They will discuss food gathering, cultivation, preparation and sharing, as well as the relationship between food, land and health. This is the third webinar in the 鈥淲e Will All Eat鈥?series supported by the Goethe-institut. Join here at 4pm. DM/MC"
"Digital Faku鈥檊esi returns to Braamfontein and online

South Africa鈥檚 digital arts festival Faku鈥檊esi kicked off this Thursday, 14 October. The festival, which is a hybrid event, is taking place via a virtual platform and in the Tshimologong PrecinctinBraamfontein.

Now in its eighth year, the festival features an array of artists from across African countries. This year, under the curatorial leadership of social sculptor and creative entrepreneur dillion s phiri, Fuku鈥檊esi will explore the state of digital creativity and innovation in Africa.

This year the festival has a built in online, digital platform with Bettershared to showcase and exhibit the artistry content in a centralised place, the Fakugesi Virtual gallery. The gallery is a creative and engaging experience to explore what you would normally experience physically in 3D form, loaded with explosive interactive global content.

鈥淭his year the theme 鈥?Buildcosyouhaveto鈥?is calling on creatives across Africa especially those using technology to build because they have to 鈥?the social changes as a result of the pandemic have forced a lot of artists to accelerate their practice & innovate in the digital space,鈥?Phiri says. 鈥淥ver the past eight years, Fakugesi has directed efforts to not only celebrating creatives using technology but creating Laboratories & Programs that are meant to provide mentorship, advance skills and create global networks for African creatives.鈥?
The 2021 edition will feature all aspects of digital creativity from Across Africa.

The festival kicks off with six digital artists being invited to Tshimologong Precinct to show their skills and battle for a prize under a chosen theme in partnership with ByWayOfIllustration. Day one will also highlight The Art of Non-Fungible Tokens, a panel hosted by phiri will look at how digital artists are leveraging the shift to the digital world through NFT鈥檚 and other mediums.

Animation is a growing medium for digital storytelling on the African continent and is filled with vast opportunities. Conversations on the Bootstrapping of Animation in partnership with Goethe-institut鈥檚 Cav鈥?Creative Economies & Animation SA, a roundtable on womxn in animation with Mounia Aram and Camille Eden, vice-president of talent and recruitment and Nickelodeon on Saturday, 16 October explores animation鈥檚 role as a storytelling tool for African narratives and highlights great talent on the continent.

For the business end of creativity, The festival will also feature talks on Regulations and Funding featuring South African institutions like Film Publication Board, Gauteng Film Commission, and continental and international bodies like Africa No Filter and IFAS. There will also be a discussion on platforms for creatives from the institutions and companies building the platforms like New-Comma, IFAS, Bettershared and others.

The immersive reality conversations dubbed #ImmersiveJuakali planned to take place on Tuesday, 19 October led by Nyambura M Maruingi of Akoia offers an opportunity to explore African extended reality (XR) content through the work of a key selection of creators at its forefront. The conversations and accompanying digital exhibition highlights the immersive storytelling and extended reality technologies that are emerging as the field grows across Africa.

The growth of the gaming industry is well documented worldwide. As part of the Fak鈥檜gesi Arcade on Wednesday, 20 October in partnership with Telkom, the festival will present a three-day hackathon aimed at continuing the much needed development of the continent鈥檚 gaming landscape as well as contextualise the gap between our audiences and creators. The festival will debut as a presentation of the South African Game Development Ecosystem 2020 research report and host conversations on Platforms and support of the ecosystem in relation to the report and also the Games we play from the creators in Africa.

As part of the Alumni Programme supported by the National Arts Council, three maker spaces across Cape Town, Johannesburg & Durban will be offering 3D printing workshops viewable online on Thursday, 21 October via the website and socials.

Friday 22 October and Saturday, 23 October we will change gears to focus on digital music. From an evening Soundclash featuring musicians in South African and the UK, to an earlier DJ Masterclass by Soft Grapes on Friday to on Saturday having two sessions on aspects of creation and distribution of digital African music featuring South African artists such as Bylwansta and Nonku Phiri curated and hosted by multi-talented creative force, Nandi 鈥淢amakashaka鈥?Dlepu.

The festival鈥檚 grand finale will feature performances from a line-up of artists such as Bylwansta and Nonku Phiri."
"ACCES and Bassline come together for I AM HERE concert

The headline artists are Thandiswa Mazwai and Sampa The Great who has been impacting globally with her latest albums and shows.

JOHANNESBURG - Bassline, in association with the leading pan-African music trade-event ACCES, will present the Bassline Fest I AM HERE live music concert on 27 November at Constitution Hill in Johannesburg.

This concert will be for a live audience (in line with COVID-19 regulations) and streamed internationally with Bassline鈥檚 festival partners.

The headline artists are South African legend Thandiswa Mazwai and Zambia-born Australia-based Sampa The Great, who has been impacting globally with her latest albums and shows.

Also billed are SA hip hop stalwart Stogie T, Lesotho's Morena Leraba, Laliboi and Ikati Esengxoweni from South Africa and Moonga K from Zambia/Botswana.

Tickets are R400 on Howler and Computicket.

The show starts at 16:00 and ends at 23:00.

Bassline Fest has partnered with the 4th Music In Africa Conference For Collaborations, Exchange and Showcases (ACCES) for the I AM HERE concert.

WHAT IS ACCES?

""ACCES is a pan-African trade event for music industry players to exchange ideas, discover new talent and create business linkages. ACCES is held in a different African city every year, attracting active music industry players from across the globe. This year is Johannesburg鈥檚 turn,"" said organiser Brad Holmes of Bassline.

ACCES is organised by the Music in Africa Foundation, a non-profit and pan-African organisation, in partnership with Siemens Stiftung, Goethe-institut and Reeperbahn Festival International 鈥?one of Europe鈥檚 largest club festivals.

Featuring international speakers, networkers and showcasing artists, ACCES will offer a strong programme that includes industry talks, pitch and networking sessions, workshops, music performances and exhibitions with delegates from over 40 countries.

This year ACCES and Reeperbahn Festival will present exciting live acts from across Africa over three days (25 鈥?27 November).

On the last day ACCES will join forces with Bassline to offer a truly memorable pan-African event.

Holmes emphasises that the performances were happening as a result of the support of a number of different organisations.



SAKIFO Festival is supporting StogieT鈥檚 performance in keeping with the long relationship with Bassline Fest, sharing talent and industry experience.

StogieT will be presenting his craft with the support of an all-star jazz quartet; Shane Cooper on bass and electric guitar, Bokani Dyer on keys/piano, multi-instrumentalist Clement Carr, Justin Badenhorst on drums and additional vocals by BONJ.

Eddie Hatidye, Music in Africa Director said 鈥淭he Bassline team has for many years championed the celebration and discovery of African talent. We at the Music in Africa Foundation are delighted to finally have the opportunity to join forces with Bassline with the goal to produce a memorable event.""

Holmes explained that this latest showcase was a continuation of the work his organisation had undertaken to keep music alive over the trying times of COVID-19.

""I AM HERE is the middle part of a two year project titled 'From Lockdown to Live' An African Music Journey. This project spans the whole of the pandemic period from 2020 to 2022 and consists of I AM HOME, I AM HERE & I AM LIVE. I AM HOME broadcast earlier this year was a hugely successful hybrid project resulting in a Bassline presented and made for TV, live music special, I AM HOME . Which featuring a host of African music artists from across the African Continent. Some artists were filmed live at the Bassline Live at The Lyric Returns, three concerts in May 2021 series with a host of burgeoning and established artists. This series was made possible by the NAC鈥檚 PESP stimulus package. In I AM HOME audience got to see Sampa The Great in a pre-recoded studio set, this as a precursor and a tantaliser for audiences to now see her in the flesh live on stage at the Bassline Fest I AM HERE."""
"Desire: Moonchild Sanelly worked hard to make it locally and abroad without using a music label. Photo: Tyrone Bradley/Red Bull Content Pool

Nasty C鈥檚 third studio album, Zulu Man With Some Power, is the talented Durban lyricist鈥檚 biggest to date. It made history when it was announced that the album is the biggest pre-add in South Africa and the biggest globally for a South African artist on Apple Music. The release boasts guest appearances from American stars and producers TI, Ari Lennox, ATL Jacob and Bankroll Gotit.

It鈥檚 becoming a norm for (South) African artists to collaborate with their Western counterparts. The Web has shrunk the world, leading to a real-time cross-pollination of influences and a global network of musicians. In the case of Nasty C, it鈥檚 thanks to the internet and the backing by the strong muscle of Universal Music Group Africa and the popular United States label Def Jam Recordings.

The debate between artists moving independently versus them signing with labels is a big one internationally. 鈥淚t鈥檚 preference,鈥?Nasty C said in an interview last year. 鈥淎nd how smart you are. I鈥檓 a musician, but I鈥檓 also a businessman, and businessmen make partnerships; they don鈥檛 do everything out of the garage. You move slow like that. That鈥檚 working hard. Businessmen work smart.鈥?
Going it alone

But a number of South African artists have built careers without the help of labels. Moonchild Sanelly, Muzi, DJ Lag, J Molley, Spoek Mathambo, PatricKxxLee and many others release music on their own, purely online, and tour the country while some tour abroad.

A-Reece鈥檚 Welcome to My Life and Meanwhile in Honeydew are internet hits with a million and three million views respectively. (Photo: Sabelo Mkhabela)

The Pretoria-based rapper, A-Reece, said in a clip from his and collaborators Ecco and Wordz鈥檚 2018 music video for the song Welcome to My Life: 鈥淚鈥檝e never been on tour before. And people really love my stuff. I only put my stuff out on the internet. But they knew every single song, they were going in, and I was like, hell yeah, what鈥檚 the next city?鈥?
The video for Welcome to My Life recently became the latest A-Reece video to reach the one million views milestone. A-Reece has grown from strength to strength since leaving the controversial and influential label Ambitiouz Entertainment in 2016. The Pretoria rapper has since become one of several torchbearers for independence in the South African hip-hop scene.

His songs may not top the Metro FM or Ukhozi FM charts, but fans are streaming them in their millions on YouTube, Spotify and Apple Music. His 2016 viral hit Meanwhile in Honeydew may not be a national hit of the same magnitude as Yanga Chief鈥檚 Utatakho, AKA鈥檚 Fela in Versace or Kwesta鈥檚 Spirit, appearing on every major radio playlist, but it鈥檚 an internet hit of note, with more than three million views and still counting.

No need for hits

Nasty C explained the phenomenon of hip-hop artists like himself, A-Reece and YoungstaCPT, who start online, during a conversation with hip-hop veteran Stogie T on Vuzu TV in 2018. 鈥淭he kids don鈥檛 really care if you have mega-hits anymore,鈥?said Nasty C. 鈥淎s long as they can attach something to you and feel like they can relate to you, if your social media is buzzing, or you鈥檙e just interested in interviews.鈥?
Artists such as Flame, PatricKxxLee, Zoocci Coke Dope, The Big Hash and J Molley release projects regularly to fans who consume their work instead of gravitating towards hits they hear on the radio or discover on Spotify and Apple Music playlists.

Through targeted use of the internet to release music, Nasty C is confident in reaching a wide audience from an initially small but initiated base. (Image: Courtesy of Universal Music)

Nasty C attributed the rise of cult followings in South African hip-hop to artists knowing their audience. 鈥淚t鈥檚 because [in previous years] you didn鈥檛 have a specific crowd that you were speaking to. You just made a song and hoped it catches to everybody. But right now, it鈥檚 possible to have your own people that you鈥檙e speaking to.鈥?
Personal connection

Nasty C鈥檚 counterpart, the rapper Shane Eagle, is one of a number of artists who have their 鈥渙wn people鈥? The lyricist was deliberate in breaking the rules with the release of his 2017 debut album, Yellow.

The album wasn鈥檛 supported by a big single as is usually the case with mainstream releases. Julia, a single he released prior to Yellow, didn鈥檛 make the album. 鈥淗ow can technology be moving so quickly yet human beings still wanna be thinking the same? You need to step out of that,鈥?Shane Eagle said in 2017. Yellow would go on to win the Best Hip Hop Album award at the South African Music Awards (SAMAs) in 2018.

The rapper and his business partner, Vaughn Thiel, with whom he co-owns the label Eagle Entertainment, always make sure to maintain a 鈥減ersonal connection鈥?with the fans. For instance, Yellow CDs and merchandise were sold directly to fans by the rapper and his team at pop-up stores and on the countrywide Yellow Tour. 鈥淲e don鈥檛 have any major sponsors for this thing,鈥?Vaughn said ahead of the tour. 鈥淲e鈥檙e putting up our money, and we鈥檙e gonna do this thing without anybody telling us we can. Without any brands saying go ahead. We鈥檙e doing it on our own like we鈥檝e done everything else.鈥?
Shane Eagle prides himself on maintaining a personal connection with fans, with a couple of day ones personally invited to his Yellow Tour (Kgotso Aphane/@Maverick.Seizure)

Stars such as Cassper Nyovest and AKA have committed fans who they interact with and sometimes invite them to album listening sessions or shows. These fans who defend their faves on Twitter have collective names, such as The Megacy (for AKA), Tsibipians (Nyovest) and Slimes (A-Reece).

Shane Eagle spoke about the strategy of maintaining a personal connection with fans to US radio personality Ebro Darden in November last year. 鈥淸Fans] who鈥檝e been with me since the beginning,鈥?he said, 鈥淚 know them personally. I hit them up via DM and invited them to a pre-launch party before the mixtape came out so they could experience it first.鈥?He also keeps a mailing list of his fans and shares special surprises and news with them.

Reaching West

In his 2019 mixtape, Dark Moon Flowr, Shane Eagle features a plethora of artists from the US and Africa 鈥?Kota the Friend (US), Santi (Nigeria), Nasty C (South Africa), PatricKxxLee (South Africa/Zambia) among others. In the past few years, the West has been looking to the continent for inspiration and collaborators, resulting in African artists being hand-picked by the likes of Beyonc茅 and Kendrick Lamar for projects such as Black Panther: The Album and The Lion King (The Gift and Black is King).

South African artists score nominations on international award shows and regularly appear on reputable media platforms such as A Colors Show, Sway in The Morning, Apple Music 1 (formerly Beats 1), BBC 1Xtra and Tim Westwood TV. Bands such BLK JKS, Tumi and the Volume, Fantasma and The Brother Moves On kicked off the era of the country鈥檚 left field bands finding success abroad in the late 2000s.

Reflecting on the years she spent building her name abroad, Moonchild Sanelly told the audience at the Midem Africa music business conference in Cape Town earlier this year about her personal journey. 鈥淚鈥檝e landed in France with only R100,鈥?she said. 鈥淏ut in the second year, I went back with R500. I was establishing relationships to a point where now when I go back to SXSW, there鈥檚 a club that I host at because of the consistency and me investing the time. And, now I don鈥檛 go [overseas] for free.鈥?
South Africa has one of the most professionally structured music industries on the continent, but the country hasn鈥檛 exported enough of its talent to match that from Nigeria and some parts of West Africa, especially Ghana. Nigerians have the advantage of a big diasporic population, which has helped spread the music of their country of origin in Europe and North America.

But with the internet, one of the most disruptive tools artists have at their disposal, the possibilities are endless. One never really knows who is watching, and one single move could lead to a career highlight or life changing opportunity.

Hybrid of old and new

Recently, the world fell in love with Limpopo bolobedu house music producer Master KG and singer Nomcebo鈥檚 mega-hit Jerusalema. The song, which was one of the biggest South African summer hits of 2019, didn鈥檛 make it at the SAMAs earlier this year. Master KG and his fellow bolo house hit-makers King Monada and Makhadzi didn鈥檛 bag a single nomination.

The show seemed to favour artists signed to influential labels such as Sony Music, Universal Music Group and Ambitiouz Entertainment. These labels have teams dedicated to plugging their artists on radio and their backing give an artist weight.

This also points to the limits of the judges behind these awards. In 2017, the rapper Riky Rick shocked the industry when he insinuated that awards were rigged. 鈥淭here鈥檚 a lot of people that struggle to put music out in this country, and I feel like there鈥檚 too many structures that are blocking people from putting out the dopest music,鈥?said Riky during an acceptance speech at the Metro FM Awards. 鈥?0% of the shit I hear on radio is garbage. The stuff is living on the internet, everything is on the internet right now. So if you鈥檙e a kid and you鈥檙e watching this right now, forget radio. If they don鈥檛 let you play on radio, you better go to the internet and make your songs pop on the internet.鈥?
Master KG鈥檚 is the latest internet success story. Right after the SAMAs, Jerusalema caught on fire and is now sitting at a mind-blowing 120-million views on YouTube and has topped charts in countries such as Switzerland, Burkina Faso, France, Romania, Grenada, Belgium, Bulgaria, Italy and Portugal. One can never tell for sure how far a song will travel. When Jerusalema was the song of the summer, no one, including Master KG and Nomcebo, could have guessed that the song would have an extended lifespan and become a global hit.

Just like Shane Eagle鈥檚, Master KG鈥檚 strategy is a hybrid of ways of doing things. In a recent opinion article in Bizcommunity, the founder of the urban music website Slikour On Life, Siya 鈥淪likour鈥?Metane wrote that Master KG understands the importance of distribution and marketing. 鈥淲hat鈥檚 interesting about Master KG,鈥?wrote Metane, 鈥渋s that he has understood this because he鈥檚 kept himself in touch with his audience. He knows that he finds most of his fans on Facebook, but he also knows that he has an audience that is not digital. He produced a CD because it was the best way for his grandfather to hear his music, and it turned out his grandfather wasn鈥檛 the only one who wanted a CD. If anything, he is a master of people with whom he has a deep affinity, a quality that few marketers possess.鈥?
South African artists like Sho Madjozi, ByLwansta and Stogie T have had times when the world鈥檚 eyes were on their performances. With R&B sensation Elaine鈥檚 recent signing to Columbia Records, and Def Jam Recordings setting up shop in Nigeria and Johannesburg, it鈥檚 clear that South African artists have created a demand in the world for their art.

The new generation of the country鈥檚 artists combine both new and traditional ways of distributing and marketing their music. As Shane Eagle rapped in his song Empty Highways, 鈥淭his that new wave, I mean who jiggier than this?鈥?
This article was produced as part of a partnership between the Mail & Guardian and the Goethe-institut focusing on various aspects of innovation"
"Nono Motlhoki鈥檚 Lenyalo questions generational burdens of culture on women. (Courtesy of Veefatso Motlhoki)

Towards the end of June, Stevenson Gallery and the Visual Arts Network of South Africa (Vansa) invited artists to submit their portfolios for review with the opportunity to develop and refine their work through robust dialogue with the gallery鈥檚 team. Executed through virtual studio visits and conversations, this set of portfolio reviews gave form to The Nonrepresentational.

The exhibition spotlights an impressive collection of work by 12 artists working in various mediums. Participating artists include: Lebogang Mogul Mabusela, Heinrich Minnie, Nonkululeko Dube, Boitumelo Motau, Londiwe Mtshali, Nico Athene, Valerie Asiimwe Amani, Celimpilo Mazibuko, Tshepiso Mabula, Nono Motlhoki, Callan Grecia and Io Makandal.

The strength of the exhibition is that it functions outside a singular and uniform organising principle. Instead, artists included traverse divergent and complex personal, ideological and political questions.

Mabula and Mtshali explore history and memory through intimate portraits of everyday rituals. Amani, Motlhoki and Athene centre the body, pointing to the complexities of identity through performative gestures. Makandal and Minnie offer up investigations of the urban landscape through symbolism and abstraction. Motau explores mythology and religion through depictions of human-like creatures. Grecia, Mazibuko and Dube鈥檚 works are reflections of the post-apartheid condition through symbolism, text and the human figure. Mabusela uses tradition and feminist theory, disrupting the workings of patriarchy through the creation of handmade paper guns.

The exhibition draws on the meanings of the term 鈥渘onrepresentational鈥? which, in art criticism, is parallel to 鈥渁bstract鈥?

Londiwe Mtshali鈥檚 Izithunzi traces rituals. (Courtesy of Londiwe Mtshali)



As a double entendre, the term also points to the fact that artists are not represented by the gallery. Typically, representation means an artist will be incorporated into the gallery鈥檚 programme with structural institutional support. This allows the artist opportunities to exhibit and sell works. Representation is a meeting of the minds between the two parties.

The Nonrepresentational exhibition was held virtually, through the gallery鈥檚 online viewing room. Curated by two staff members, Lemeeze Davids and Dineo Diphofa, it offered a rare moment where 鈥渏unior鈥?team members flex, champion projects and receive recognition for their work. The term 鈥渏unior鈥?is in quotation marks because tenure is not always correlated to the level of meaningful contribution one brings to a team. To paraphrase artist and scholar Hito Steyerl, we all know that the art world survives on the commitment of hardworking women and stressed-out interns.

An interesting aspect of the exhibition is its potential to function as an alternative to the long-established artist-gallery relationship formulated on the basis of representation. Interestingly, the term 鈥渘onrepresentational鈥?carries specific meaning in the realm of human geography. Associate professor of human geography at the University of Plymouth, Paul Simpson, describes the nonrepresentational [theory] as a diverse body of work that highlights alternative approaches to the conception, practice and production of knowledge where the nonrepresentational reorients [geographical] analysis beyond an overemphasis on representations.

Valerie Asiimwe Amani鈥檚 All the English You Ate reflects on the complexities of identity. (Courtesy of Valerie Asiimwe Amani)



Although the theory is conceived in an entirely different field, I find this language and analysis useful in relation to process 鈥?the notion of drawing on alternative approaches that reorient relationships beyond an overemphasis on representation. Here, the reorientation prioritises the activity of artmaking (and its commerce) over technical (perhaps even legal) constraints. One has to consider whether critical and sustained engagement outside of representation could result in a more natural and swift flow of knowledge, expertise and capital.

A decade ago, an initiative such as this one might have been about visibility, where a possible positive outcome for the artist would be increased visibility. Perhaps this is less so since the escalation of social media apps (particularly Instagram) as productive sites for marketing and sales. Many artists, including those in this exhibition, continue to find ways to use social media to garner interest and productive engagement regarding their work. But building a sustainable practice is not just a 鈥渘umber of followers鈥?game, it is also about access to different kinds of audiences 鈥?collectors, institutions, academics, curators, writers and supporters, many of whom can be reached through the gallery system.

As we work together to build a post-pandemic new normal, something that is constantly on my mind is how we are thinking through questions of access, equity and equality. I question the extent to which programmes are inventive in expanding modes of working

and offering new ways for artists to gain access to institutional structures.

It was disappointing to note that all 12 artists in the exhibition are either studying or have studied at the Wits School of Art, Michaelis School of Fine Art, The Market Photo Workshop, Durban University of Technology, the university currently known as Rhodes and the University of Oxford.

Nonkululeko Dube鈥檚 Fuck the System comments on post-apartheid South Africa (Courtesy of Nonkululeko Dube)



Most have also been included in exhibitions at galleries and institutions in various parts of the country. These outcomes might be a product of a few things, one of which is the initial demographics in Vansa network as well as the demographics of applicants. The centring of formal education is concerning, especially in a country where the struggle for free and decolonial education continues.

Upward mobility and access can鈥檛 be so closely tied to formal education because this contributes to inequality and uneven cultural representation. As I am advocating for more 鈥渄iverse inclusion鈥?I鈥檓 also aware of the fact that artists operate under very different value systems where access, success and flourishing careers can be defined by a different set of parameters. This is what one hopes for 鈥?the creation of hybrid spaces of working and relating that do not conform to the mainstream and the recognition of different systems, which will provoke and inspire change.

Like many online exhibitions, The Nonrepresentational expands traditional practices of display beyond physical spaces, however, it does so without departing too much from the curatorial processes of critical reflection, investigation and discovery. I鈥檓 not fully convinced of the extent to which the exhibition 鈥?or, more appropriately, the project 鈥?offers a vastly different model to how artists and galleries to work together.

The exhibition can be viewed at stevenson.info.

This article was produced as part of a partnership between the Mail & Guardian and the Goethe-institut focusing on innovation in various aspects."
"Artist and photographer Thembi Mthembu pictured at the Gulf of Venice in 2019. (Thembi Mthembu)

A nude woman sits on a chair along the Gulf of Venice. Tourists and locals blur in the background, seemingly unperturbed by the person in focus, who meets the camera鈥檚 gaze. There is a thin, black line drawn over the waves, a small detail in the grayscale photograph.

In another colour image a different woman bathes in the waters of Arles, about 800km away. The woman鈥檚 features are unidentifiable, but the mauve water surrounding her is translucent and has calm ripples. The former portrait is by the KwaZulu-Natal artist and photographer, Thembi Mthembu, taken in 2019 during a trip to the Biennale. The latter is a self-portrait of documentary photographer Mandisa Buthelezi, taken during her 2016 Studio Vortex residency in France.

In Izithunzi Zami, Mandisa Buthelezi shifts her introspection to herself through portraits of her body. (Mandisa Buthelezi)

Mthembu and Buthelezi are part of the zeitgeist of young South Africans re-imagining photography. Both represent the importance of telling one鈥檚 story. Though their images are informed by different experiences and have different intentions, their work illustrates the role of self-portraiture in creating new narratives and decolonising the photographic medium.

Their journeys and choices in self-portraiture and visual storytelling have been important in establishing new narratives about the Southern African landscape and shaping contemporary visual archives.

A brief history of South Africa鈥檚 relationship with portraiture

An image from Mandisa Buthelezi鈥檚 uBhuku lukaMenzi series, which revisists the story of princess Mkabayi kaJama (Mandisa Buthelezi)

South Africa鈥檚 photographic history is rooted in colonial, anthropological portraiture. In the 1800s, the camera was brought to the coast of Durban, as colonisers set up studios to take portraits of settler families, and to photograph indigenes 鈥?whose names were often not recorded 鈥?for studies. Later on in the 1950s, portraits were used as identifiers for identity documents or dompases. In this way, early uses of photography were inherently classist and oppressive.

The accessibility of photography enabled more people to partake in the practice. During the 1980s, there was a rise in photography as a tool for activism. Collectives and independent photographers began to document their own stories. Examples include the social documentary and resistance photography collective Afrapix, as well as Santu Mofokeng and David Goldblatt, who used photography to record everyday life under apartheid. These archives can be seen as attempts to decolonise the photographic practice, because they contributed nuanced depictions of the society of which they were a part.

Photography as celebrating the self and reflecting the times

After making portraits for fun, Thembi Mthembu realised the dynamism of making meaning and began to add narrative to the nudes. (Thembi Mthembu)

Mthembu grew up in Enseleni, Richards Bay. Her interest in photography began after watching a TV interview during the 2010 Fifa World Cup. 鈥淭here was this lady, a sports photographer. She was talking about her career and how vast photography was as a career. That鈥檚 when I gained my interest in photography,鈥?she says.

Mthembu studied photography at the Durban University of Technology by doing a foundation course for one year and gaining an array of visual art skills. In her third year, she began exploring nude photography. 鈥淚 wanted to do something different from the rest of the class. [Nudes] were trending at the time on Instagram.鈥?
For the artist, photography became a way of exploring her androgyny. (Thembi Mthembu)

It was 2015 when she made the portraits for fun, but on reflection, Mthembu realised the dynamism of making meaning and began to add narrative to the nudes.

She attributes her desire to share her journey of embracing her body to her formative experiences. 鈥淚 have a twin sister. We鈥檙e fraternal and she is more feminine looking than me, so I was different and I was often compared to her, which led to low self-esteem. [Self-portraiture] became a platform of expression 鈥?me discovering and embracing my imperfections.鈥?
Mthembu says photography became a way of exploring her androgynous features to make sense of her identity on her own terms. 鈥淚t made me revisit my childhood traumas that I never paid attention to. The minute I started posting and talking about my experiences, then I would get people relating to my story.鈥?
Mthembu adds elements of digital design to step away from traditional documentary self-portraiture. (Thembi Mthembu)

The main focus of her work is her body, but she adds elements of digital design to step away from traditional documentary self-portraiture and subtly present ideas about body politics, freedom and technology. 鈥淚n order for the next generation to see what was happening now, they have to see our work, so they know we lived in the introduction of technology and digital manipulation.鈥?
Narratives as a way of elevating history and selfhood

The photographs in uBhuku lukaMenzi are new ways of approaching documentary photos, where a narrative from another time is introduced (Mandisa Buthelezi)



Mandisa Buthelezi uses her photography to explore her cultural heritage and to affirm her identity. Her recent series, uBhuku lukaMenzi, revisits the story of Princess Mkabayi kaJama, Shaka鈥檚 aunt who was dismissed for presenting herself as a strong woman. 鈥淚 was really taken by the fact that she had so much power as a royal woman of the Zulu monarchy,鈥?says Buthelezi. 鈥淪he was in the centre of politics to such an extent that she appointed herself as regent of the throne because her brother, King Senzangakhona [Shaka鈥檚 father) was too young to take over.鈥?
The photos in uBhuku lukaMenzi are new ways of approaching documentary photos, where a narrative from another time is introduced. The photographs are black and white and graded with a granular texture. The series translates as a visual story, with pieces of the Princess Mkabayi allegory. For instance, in one image there is a calm setting in which women are doing each other鈥檚 hair. Juxtaposing this is a more frenetic image of dancing feet and rising dust. If we are to connect the images to the story of the princess, they can be read as moments of community followed by uprising in Mkabayi鈥檚 life.

Juxtaposing calm and frenetic settings, the images can be read as moments of community followed by uprising in Mkabayi鈥檚 life. (Mandisa Buthelezi)

The story Buthelezi presents through research and personal connection to Zulu culture is reminiscent of a historical document. Through her use of captions we are aware that Buthelezi has intentionally created this grand visual pairing for a story that is more than 100 years old. 鈥淭he conversation I intended to initiate with the work, over and above celebrating Princess Mkabayi, is to relook at how women of power have been represented through historical texts and narratives. Everyone knows that the game of politics/power is a kill or be killed game. When men participate and win, they are celebrated but when women take part, they are vilified.鈥?
Looking at the series as a whole, we can understand the story of Princess Mkabayi because it reads like an unconventional photostory. Buthelezi informs our knowledge of the tale through her commentary.

In her other work, Izithunzi Zami, Buthelezi shifts her introspection to herself through portraits of her body. 鈥淚zithunzi Zami was a very intimate and internal body of work, and it is a project that really challenged me to interrogate the connection I had with myself, the environment, as well as the relationship I had with what I was going through at that particular time.鈥?
The images are strong stand-alones and the vulnerability offered to the viewer is palpable. 鈥淚t was also extremely spiritual and taught me a lot about my creative process and practice, and this shifted my photography discipline since.鈥?
The work is emotive because she made the portraits herself and reveals something earnestly beautiful, without the gaze of someone else.

Past and present storytelling

Contemporary photography offers the opportunity to re-frame and re-present our stories.

Mthembu and Buthelezi鈥檚 work collectively contributes to shaping current visual narratives through referencing the past, as seen with Buthelezi鈥檚 work. uBhuku lukaMenzi revisits a historical narrative, while her self-portraiture explores her identity. Mthembu uses self-portraiture to revisit her experiences as a child, while using visual cues to present her current life in a technologically-informed era.

Much like Goldblatt, Mofokeng and other photographers who have contributed to the current archive, and contemporaries such as Zanele Muholi, a formidable figure in documenting the self, Buthelezi and Mthembu are contributing to a living archive of documentary self-portraiture.

This article was produced as part of a partnership between the Mail & Guardian and the Goethe-institut, which focuses on innovation in various aspects."
"Black woman鈥檚 ecstasy (Kimberly Marie Ashby)

The global pandemic, as an apocalyptic event itself or as a catalyst towards the apocalypse 鈥?one whose climate, economic and social outcomes disproportionately affect Black and Brown people 鈥?has accelerated and deepened our considerations of world endings.

We find ourselves thinking about life in an age of dying; of a persistently lingering past reimagining itself in different versions of oppression and injustices.

We find ourselves wondering what the mind must be like to allow new forms of knowledge. As much as we are at the edge of the world ending, we are also at the edge of futures pregnant with possibility.

In this time of uncertainty, the thing we know without a doubt is that old methods are no longer sufficient and what is necessary to see us through are new paths to new inquiries 鈥?innovations that will function as counter-cultures and counter-measures to what has previously existed.

Hence, Afrofuturism, or more appropriately, Afrofuturism 2.0.

Afrofuturism began as a robust system of thought and immensely useful philosophy that sought to explore possible futures through the intersection of art, science, technology, history and culture. One could argue that, in recent years, it has been reduced to a collection of stylised, aestheticised and hollow tropes.

This hollowing out has rendered it ghostlike, simultaneously present and absent, looping around and reviving popularised themes and aesthetics, unable to provide new conceptions of new futures.

Maroon Angel of Liberation (Quentin Vercetty)

This is a fair criticism, which might, in part, explain the emergence of a second wave, or a 2.0 iteration. For those of us evoking the spirit of Afrofuturism to think through innovative ways of creating knowledge and solving problems, the challenge remains: how to ensure that our articulations of Afrofuturism reach beyond stylised versions of the past but rather function as a productive underlabourer of new ways of knowing 鈥?and of surviving.

Curating the End of the World is a series of exhibitions bringing together artists whose work responds to the Covid-19 pandemic, anti-Black violence, climate change, poor governance, trans-humanism, and an accelerating, technologically driven economic system on the verge of collapse.

Conceived by Reynaldo Anderson and Stacey Robinson of the Black Speculative Arts Movement (in conversation with Bill T. Jones and Janet Wong of New York Live Arts) and guest curated by Tiffany E Barber, the project combines technology, fantasy and critical thought to engage layers of possible futures. The exhibition is accessible through the Google Arts and Culture platform and precedes two more exhibitions, Red Spring and Dark Winter, which will follow within the year.

What follows is an excerpt of a conversation I had with Anderson and Barber about the project.

The exhibition coalesces different artists working across various mediums. I particularly love the inclusion of poetry. Can you tell us about your curatorial strategy?

Thighs in the Galaxy (Kimberly Marie Ashby)

As a curator, I let the artists and objects drive the shows I organise. With Curating the End of the World, from the outset we had a conceptual framework to which artists responded. But the objects submitted via the open call really informed our curatorial strategy.

This made for a diverse and expansive pool of artworks to choose from, across media 鈥?from film and video to collage and music. From the start, we were intent on including poetry and short fiction because of the role literature plays within the Black speculative imagination.

So, from the objects submitted, certain sub-themes and dynamics emerged. These overlaps happened across media and geographic contexts, which really crystallised our vision for the show.

There were also limits to the technology 鈥?at the time we struggled to find a platform that was open source, nimble and flexible enough to accommodate the multimedia nature of the exhibition. All of these factors shaped the curatorial strategy for the show.

I鈥檓 interested in how you think through the notion of speculation or Black speculative futures. What do you think this mode can offer Black people?

The artwork for Afrofuturism 2.0: The Rise of Astro Blackness (Image by John Jennings)

Black speculative futurity is an emergent field of study. Outside the arts, there are applications in the area of foresight studies and blockchain technology.

First, using an Afrofuturism framework or what Lonny Brooks refers to as 鈥淎frofuture Types鈥? in tandem with strategic foresight, to examine the existential risks facing Black or African populations around climate change, public health and conflict.

Second, combining the philosophy of ubuntu and blockchain technology is an economic opportunity for African filmmakers, entrepreneurs and creatives to develop their material over these platforms and not have to worry about distribution issues or piracy.

The phrase 鈥榯he end of the world鈥?suggests that we have reached the climax of catastrophe, and raises questions of what happens post this climax. Does it usher a new world? What lies beyond it? Is it possible that what is beyond is nothingness?

Herald of the 5th Element (Stacey Robinson)

The exhibition is a second-wave Afrofuturist commentary on the end of our current age. It implies that the neoliberal/postcolonial world order constructed towards the end of the Cold War and apartheid by George Bush, Mikhail Gorbachev, Deng Xiaoping and Nelson Mandela is coming to an end.

Also, it implies the New World or incoming age will be chaotic or, as Sheree Ren茅e Thomas refers to it,鈥渃yclical chaos鈥? During this transitory moment in world history, we鈥檙e interrogating the racist pathology and corruption that influences policy toward Black and Indigenous people around the world.

Finally, the exhibition looks at the global existential risks tied to ecology, climate change, anti-Blackness, medical apartheid, and acceleration in response to the dystopian present.

Sirreal (Sibusiso Xotongo)

You speak of 鈥榮econd-wave Afrofuturism鈥? How does the second wave differ from the first?

Afrofuturism is defined by two historical moments: the end of the Cold War and the technological shift to social media and platform capitalism.

The first wave in the 1990s, coined by Mark Dery, was focused on the speculative production by African Americans and the explosion in Web 1.0 technology and internet access 鈥?all of which occurred during the era characterised as the digital divide over the gap in access to technology between racial minorities and white Americans.

In contrast, second-wave Afrofuturism or 2.0, reflects the historical background of Black speculative thought that straddles its African roots and diasporic transformation; the emergence of social media and platform capitalism; as well as the establishment of the African Union and the incorporation of the African diaspora, reflecting pan-Africanism, and the maturation of a global Black or African philosophical view of the future.

I was listening to a podcast recently and the host mentioned that as much as we speak of the global pandemic as 鈥渦nprecedented times鈥? these times are in fact precedented (with the Spanish flu and much earlier various waves of bubonic and pneumonic plague. What is it about this moment that you believe is different? But not just different, I guess also enduring? Is this pandemic affecting artistic practices and communities in any kind of sustainable way?

What is different about this moment is the transition in capitalism and accelerating technological change. The previous pandemic did in fact kill millions world-wide during the colonial/segregation era. However, what is different is the ability of local corrupt governments or kleptocrats, as is unfolding in Nigeria, to loot resources from the community whereas previously it was directly accomplished by colonial powers. Furthermore, as is shown by the Panama papers, leaders from all over the world have been exposed transferring the wealth of their societies to offshore bank accounts with little transparency. Artists will lead the way in connecting their art to social change in this era.

Can you clarify what the viewer can expect in terms of how the project unfolds through time?

Dark Harvest (Kimberly Marie Ashby)

The two parts of the exhibition are intimately linked and build on one another for this first iteration. Two more iterations of similarly themed exhibitions will follow, extending the series of exhibitions into next year.

Within this initial one, we wanted to keep the objects to a set number to increase online engagement, while being very mindful of the fatigue we鈥檙e all experiencing in our new virtual reality. As you can see, many of the objects included in Parts I and II are dark in terms of their imagery, their tone and their colour palette.

These aesthetic choices resonate with the weight and uncertainty of our time. Things are heavy, unsettling, and dark right now. I just love that! I love how the objects reflect the social and political upheavals that are currently underway.

This article was produced as part of a partnership between the Mail & Guardian and the Goethe-institut, which focuses on various aspects of innovation."
"A Window on Soweto by Joyce Sikakane-Rankin was part life writing and part sociology. Its publication in the UK in 1977 was hugely significant. (Image: Rand Daily Mail/Tiso Blackstar Group)

Joyce Sikakane-Rankin is an apartheid-era journalist, writer, poet, documentary filmmaker and struggle veteran. She was the first woman journalist at The World and the first black woman journalist at the Rand Daily Mail. In 1969 she was arrested as part of the 鈥淭rial of 22鈥?with others such as Winnie Madikizela-Mandela and Shanthie Naidoo, after which she was imprisoned for two years 鈥?18 months of these in solitary confinement charged under the Suppression of Communism Act.

Sikakane-Rankin is featured in a new book, Women in Solitary: Inside the Female Resistance to Apartheid, by Shanthini Naidoo. Also featured in the book are Rita Ndzanga, Shanthie Naidoo and Nondwe Mankahla. It is a good time to remember Sikakane-Rankin as an author in her own right. Her book, A Window on Soweto, was published by the International Defence and Aid Fund for Southern Africa (Idaf) in 1977 from its headquarters in London.

There are several things that make the publication of the book extraordinary. A Window on Soweto was a significant and game-changing publication for Idaf at the time, with regard to its relative success in terms of sales and cultural influence, as well as its departure from the organisation鈥檚 regular output, which avoided subjectivity. (The all-time bestseller from Idaf was Nelson Mandela鈥檚 The Struggle is My Life, a collection of his speeches and other writings at that time, which sold 50 000 copies.)

A Window on Soweto can be read as a distress signal or an SOS from one community to another and gives a portrait of both the writer and Soweto as home. In a cinematic opening, Soweto as a whole is personified through scenes typical to a Sowetan home. The reader is invited to 鈥渋magine鈥?the familial and domestic lives of the people Sikakane-Rankin describes as the 鈥渋nmates鈥?of Soweto.

Denis Herbstein in his book, White Lies: Canon Collins and the Secret War against Apartheid, makes clear the radical nature of the aims of Idaf for the decades of its existence. It was structured primarily around ensuring that people standing trial for the opposition of apartheid received the best possible defence. It also ensured that the dependents of those resisting received assistance and conducted research to produce factual information about South Africa. The book fell into the work of this third, important unit.

A Window on Soweto represents the autobiographical voice of a black South African woman within this cultural output of the Anti-Apartheid Movement (AAM). The book was published within what Christabel Gurney describes in her paper 鈥淭he 1970s: the Anti-Apartheid Movement鈥檚 Difficult Decade鈥?as a time of organisational disarray for the AAM. It was also unclear how 鈥渢he development of worker militancy and student rebellion, and the growth of independent trade unions and the black consciousness movement would impact on the development of the struggle within South Africa and the role of the ANC鈥?

Published by Idaf a year after the student uprisings of 1976, A Window on Soweto appeared in the context of a muted British response to the massacre of schoolchildren; more muted than for Sharpeville or the later township insurrections of the 1980s. The Brits were preoccupied with threats of cuts in public expenditure and record post-war unemployment.

Sikakane-Rankin was a political activist who could write first-hand about the repressions going on in South Africa and the Idaf was well-placed to use this book to inform a reading public that was deliberately being kept ignorant by apartheid censorship laws. For the first time, a resident of one of the locations under the spotlight was able to share a first-hand view with the Idaf in the form of a manuscript.

Jan Marsh, then an employee of Idaf and the book鈥檚 editor, described it this way: 鈥淏y 1975 the significance of the (mainly African) townships in South Africa was clear from the location of many aspects of political repression, from unequal health and educational services through forced removals to deaths in detention. But the areas themselves were not well known to the outside world, and published information was scarce. Many Europeans were hearing about Soweto for the first time from the Western media.鈥?
A Window on Soweto represented a departure for Idaf from its usual publication style. The book is part life-writing, autobiography or memoir, and part sociology.

As Marsh put it: 鈥淕enerally, Idaf did not publish externally submitted manuscripts in unedited form; each had to conform to Idaf standards of 鈥榦bjective鈥?or at least non-polemical, evidence-based material. Many texts were written anonymously 鈥榠n-house鈥? So, typically, a manuscript would be treated as a proposal on the subject, to be developed in co-operation with the author.鈥?
In the last three pages of A Window on Soweto in the section 鈥淚nto Exile鈥? Sikakane-Rankin reveals that she left the country in July of 1973 under fear of a clampdown by the apartheid regime and fled to the ANC camp in Lusaka, Zambia. The account then jumps to the time of publishing, with an update on pass laws in South Africa from March 1977, a mere three months before the book鈥檚 publication in late June 1977, a year after the student uprisings.

In my interviews with Sikakane-Rankin, she reveals that, without access to a library, she wrote much of the manuscript from memory, relying on her journalistic knowledge. She kept up with happenings in Soweto from press clippings provided by the ANC in what was a solitary project. At the end of it, Sikakane-Rankin discussed the manuscript with Ruth First, who then read and loved it. First passed on the manuscript to Jan Marsh in London in 1975.

Sikakane-Rankin pegs the exact timeframe for the writing and handing over of the manuscript to the birth of her third child, Kenneth Samora Rankin in 1975. The manuscript was written while she was pregnant, over the course of less than six months. In 1974, Kenneth Rankin Sr and Sikakane-Rankin left Zambia for Britain. Sikakane-Rankin, at this point was a stateless person and the trip was, in part, to secure her citizenship documentation through her marriage to Kenneth, as well as to meet her in-laws.

The story was important to her in the sense of it being a premonition: 鈥淲ell, first thing that made me feel it was important was that I had this intuition that something horrible is going to happen in South Africa and you know, indeed, it happened. We had the student uprisings in South Africa so I felt that the oppression would explode. The students will do something about it.

鈥淪o I thought, well, let me just write about what being in Soweto meant, that鈥檚 why it鈥檚 called A Window on Soweto. And, of course, the uprisings did happen, and 鈥?the proceeds of the book helped families of political prisoners to be able to get lawyers for 鈥?those who were arrested and detained. So I felt it did something important.鈥?
Sikakane-Rankin remembers that while in Great Britain, through the help of Idaf fact papers, more up-to-date information was added to the text. Marsh describes the work as follows: 鈥淸鈥 a good deal of the editorial process took place when Joyce Sikakane-Rankin was in Scotland. I worked from the research department in Finchley. Following the initial assessment, she undertook a great deal of revision and expansion of the text, in collaboration with myself. Other Idaf colleagues in Newgate Street read the text and commented.

鈥淎nother colleague who indirectly assisted with the book was Shanthie Naidoo, based in the research department, who had been Sikakane-Rankin鈥檚 friend and comrade in South Africa. Her knowledge of the era and events described in A Window on Soweto was valued assistance during the editing.鈥?
In 1978, A Window on Soweto was published by Norwegian publisher, JW Cappelens. The translated version was called Vindu Mot Soweto. In 1979, the Idaf publications department received word that A Window on Soweto was being serialised in the Japanese Anti-Apartheid Movement bulletin. By early 1979, a blanket ban on all Idaf publications was instituted in South Africa. The book sold more than 15 000 copies (excluding foreign rights) both in the UK and the rest of the world.

This article was produced as part of a partnership between the Mail & Guardian and the Goethe-institut, focusing on various aspects of innovation."
"Angelique du Plessis from Darkroom Contemporary, a dance theatre company that features in Katografi, a multi-disciplinary project that expands ideas around mapping. (Photo: Oscar O鈥橰yan)

鈥楲ike linguistics, cartography is a territory of subfields, themes, technologies, processes and imperial cul-de-sacs. Cartography is less an attempt to represent facts as accurately as possible than it is an endeavour to distort the least.鈥?
鈥?Lesley Lokko, from The Past is a Foreign Country (2018).

In his latest project Kartografi (K蓱晒藞t蓱伞晒蓹fi), Scott Eric Williams responds to our collective fear of nearness through engaging subfields, themes and processes of mapping, both digitally and in real life. His is a celebration of public space and an invitation to engage with the physical world as an antidote to digital overload. The project is presented in collaboration with Darkroom Contemporary Dance Theatre, formed as a vehicle to reimagine dance through innovative approaches of staging and presenting contemporary works.

Origins

Originating from ancient Greek, kartografi (k蓱晒藞t蓱伞晒蓹fi) encompasses two words: 鈥渃hart膿s鈥? which means paper or papyrus, and 鈥済raphein鈥? which means 鈥渢o write鈥? Written on paper, cartography is evidently about authorship and authority 鈥?writing histories and writing place, with theoretical and practical agendas. Cartography, as a process of map-making, produces a set of knowledge about spatial relations and the location of entities 鈥?it is about placeness, situatedness, interspace and terrain, representing both physical and political boundaries.

Within this project, Williams proposes a reconfiguration of connectedness, what he considers 鈥渁 laboratory for mapping new ways of being鈥? By merging dance, drone photography, digital art and wheat paste, he offers a proposition that considers the symbiotic relationship between the digital and analogue, between motion and rest.

Online, through the University of Cape Town Institute for Creative Arts鈥?fellowship programme, viewers are asked to participate by navigating the abstract space. By zooming and scrolling, one finds clickable objects that reveal staged performances.

A grid is used as a palimpsest (red lines on a white surface), grey polyhedrons fill space and location markers are interspersed with aerial images of bodies in a state between rest and play. Line, shape and form merge, creating rhythm and harmony.

Gabriel Mehlomakhulu in Kartografi. (Photo: Oscar O鈥橰yan)

Linked to the images is an interactive map that locates the physical wheat-paste artworks across the city of Cape Town. Individual locations include: Aubrey Street, Greatmore Studios (James Street side), Inside 10 Yew Street, Side Street Studios and BG Caf茅 Take Aways 鈥?some of which are open by appointment only. Once they reach the physical site, participants are encouraged to take a photo of themselves with the wheat paste, which they can upload onto the interactive map. Here, authorship is removed from artist to participant, creating the potential for a sense of community to emerge.

The project uses the digital to drive users into the public space. By encouraging the use of public space, K蓱晒藞t蓱伞晒蓹fi raises the following questions:

What are the reconfigured definitions of the public within which we must now work?

How do we draw closer to audiences and participants while respecting social distancing regulations?

How do we interact while lessening the emphasis of technology in our interactions?

How do we, as artists and cultural producers, avoid taxing the attention span of our audiences even further?

How do we ensure that we account for attention fatigue 鈥?by considering parameters such as brevity of form, content and composition? and

How then do we address audiences more intimately?

Born of the condition of national lockdown and notions of creativity and productivity during this time when home life and work life have become entangled, K蓱晒藞t蓱伞晒蓹fi is a contemplation of space. It reflects on space and provides options to guard against screen fatigue.

Intellectual movements

In the bibliographic project, On Circulations and the African Imagination of a Borderless World (2018), The Chimurenga Chronic expands thinking on cartography to include the charting of intellectual movements that make up the African archive. It traces a long genealogy of spiritual and political communities, from Ghana, Senegal, Tanzania and Guinea to Democratic Republic of the Congo, in 鈥渁 relentless quest to open new epistemic pathways鈥?

Here the question of cartography is not just about enclosure (of space, of thought process, methods, and so forth), it is about circulation and movement too 鈥?movement as suggested through images in Williams鈥檚 project (material) but also psychological, mystic and philosophical movement, particularly movement as a strategy for survival.

Linked to the images in Kartografi is an interactive map that locates the physical wheat-paste artworks across the city of Cape Town. (Image courtesy of Scott Williams)

The idea of movement as a strategy of survival and resistance is beautifully encapsulated by American artist Todd Gray. After his solo exhibition, Pluralities of Being (2017), at Gallery Momo in Johannesburg he noted, 鈥淩esistance is constant movement. The dominant culture is everywhere 鈥?the only way to subvert it is to keep moving, because once you stop moving, the dominant culture catches up and they will either stereotype or appropriate!鈥?
Movement, as it relates to resistance, is often reinforced by fugitivity, where 鈥渂eing fugitive implies that borders have been and/or are still to be overcome鈥? as noted by the academic Paula von Gleigh in 2017. Scholar Saidiya Hartman reminds us that fugitivity can be riotous 鈥?a refusal to be contained (a collapsing of space), and Tina Campt points us to fugitivity (of flight and escape) that marshals persistence and Black futurity.

K蓱晒藞t蓱伞晒蓹fi, too, suggests fugitivity 鈥?an attempt to escape the emphasis of technology in our interactions, as well as an attempt to escape our collective fear of nearness.

A preoccupation with space

This project is not Williams鈥檚 first preoccupation with space and connections. In 2019, the artist presented a solo exhibition, Portals (curated by Refilwe Nkomo for Underline Projects). This body of work sought to examine power, movement, access and visibility in the context of African urban futurity and space of expanded possibilities, empowerment and emancipation.

Perhaps the origins of these investigations draw from even earlier explorations. Previously, Williams, together with Justin Davy, Jarrett Erasmus, Tazneem Wentzel and Grant Jurius, founded the collective, Burning Museum (2012-2015).

During its operational years, the collective drew on archival images, photography and the medium of wheat-pasting as forms of resistance.

Burning Museum members Grant Jurius, Scott Williams, Jarrett Erasmus, Tazneem Wentzel and Justin Davy. (Image courtesy of Scott Williams)

In a 2015 feature on Artthrob, Tim Leibbrandt proposes a reading of the collective鈥檚 work as 鈥渃ounter-hegemonic interventions whose objective is to occupy the public space in order to disrupt the smooth image that corporate capitalism is trying to spread鈥?

This is in line with Belgian political theorist Chantal Mouffe鈥檚 concept of 鈥渁gonistic democracy鈥? Self-described as engaging with themes such as history, identity, space and structure, and interested in the stories that linger as ghosts on gentrified street corners, the collective is primarily remembered for their interventions in the old District Six, marking walls of buildings with large-scale portraits to recall traumatic losses of the past because of forced removals, as well as continued gentrification.

This takes us back to Lokko鈥檚 assertion that 鈥渃artography is less an attempt to represent facts as accurately as possible than it is an endeavour to distort the least鈥?

If indeed cartography distorts, then it makes sense that we should interrogate its workings, its methods and its effects.

A wheatpaste rendering of Thandile Mbatsha in Kartografi. (Photo: Scott Williams/Darkroom Contemporary)

Williams鈥檚 K蓱晒藞t蓱伞晒蓹fi does this through dislocation. Firstly, a dislocation through linguistics 鈥?鈥淜artografi鈥?not 鈥渃artography鈥? secondly a dislocation of the clear boundaries between the digital and analogue; and lastly as a dislocation of what we visualise when we think about lines and maps.

Its success is its ability to contain and articulate a combination of complex ideas 鈥?broadening our thinking of mapping beyond just physical boundaries by nudging us towards the psychological and philosophical.

This article was produced as part of a partnership between the Mail & Guardian and the Goethe-institut focusing on various aspects of innovation"
"Cape Town City Ballet, in collaboration with the Cape Town Philharmonic Orchestra, returns to Artscape for three performances only. (Photo: Cape Town City Ballet)

Senzeni Marasela: Waiting for Gebane

In Waiting for Gebane, Senzeni Marasela鈥檚 first museum solo exhibition, she constructs works around Theodorah, the fictional alter ego she based on her mother. In Waiting for Gebane, you discover the artist鈥檚 intricate practice, which saw her wear the same ishweshwe for six years while she performed and lived as Theodorah.

Details:Waiting for Gebane runs at Zeitz Mocaa until May 2 2021. The museum is open from Thursday to Sunday, from 10am to 6pm. Tickets can be purchased here.

In her new work, the artist grapples with the meaning and significance of colours, shapes, and dimensions. (Image courtesy of Project Space/ Gallery Fanon)

Keneilwe Mokoena: Untitled 1.0: Assemblages of Unknown Realities of a State of Mind

In her new collection of analogue collages, Keneilwe Mokoena explores her fascination with and spiritual connection to the physics and mysteries of the natural world.

The artist grapples with the meaning and significance of colours, shapes, and dimensions and deals with the paradox of acknowledging that there are realities that exist within and around us that cannot be known.

Details: The exhibition runs at the Project Space and Gallery Fanon, 281 Commissioner Street, Maboneng, Johannesburg. For more information, visit galleryfanon.co.za.

Archive of Forgetfulness

Rather than understanding the archive as a direct record, this project posits it as a patchy process of memory-making in itself. The Archive of Forgetfulness encompasses and holds acts of remembering, spectres of other possible worlds, and the hauntings of 鈥渢he ruins of futures past鈥?across temporal and spatial borders. Curated by Huda Tayob and Bongani Kona, and funded by the Goethe-institut, the wider project includes a podcast series titled Conversations with Neighbours, featuring conversations with project collaborators from several parts of the continent. The conversations explore themes ranging from art in the time of crisis to archival absences and the limitations of translation.

Details: You can listen to the first two episodes on anchor.fm/dashboard/episodes and check out the rest of the episodes on anchor.fm/archive-of-forgetfulness.

Gathering: A Community of Portraits

The Jaffer Modern Art Gallery, situated on the penultimate floor of V茂b, Cape Town鈥檚 newest hotel on the Atlantic seaboard, will open its doors to the public for the first time this December. Its inaugural exhibition, Gathering: A Community of Portraits, curated by Margie Murgatroyd, launches on Friday 18 December.

Details: The exhibition launch will take place on December 18 at the Jaffer Modern Art Gallery from 5pm to 7pm. The gallery is situated on the 7th floor, Vib Cape Town, 181 Main Road, Green Point.

Cape Town City Ballet: Back on Stage

Cape Town City Ballet, in collaboration with the Cape Town Philharmonic Orchestra under the baton of Brandon Phillips, is proud to return to Artscape for three performances only. Limited seats will be available, given social distancing requirements.

Back on Stage will be performed on 10, 11 and 12 December, featuring a programme of two works: George Balanchine鈥檚 Serenade, and Moon Behind the Clouds, a suite of works made during the time of Covid-19, by South African choreographers Veronica Paeper, Celeste Botha, Kirsten Isenberg, Yaseen Manuel, Lindy Raizenberg, Louisa Talbot and Marlin Zoutman.

Details: The show will be presented to the public on Friday December 11 at 7.30pm and on Saturday December 12 at 3pm. Tickets can be booked at Artscape Dial-a-seat on 021 421 7695 or on artscape.co.za."
"Rising up in 1976: An image used in Sifiso Khanyile鈥檚 documentary 'Uprize!'

One of the first films I saw from the Encounters Film Festival鈥檚 remarkable selection of documentaries was Uprize!, director Sifiso Khanyile鈥檚 hour-long feature that contextualises the events that led to the 1976 student uprisings, not only in Soweto but also around the country.

Listening to him speak about his film at the Goethe-institut after a sold-out premiere screening last weekend, it became apparent that Khanyile鈥檚 approach to telling the story was intentional: 鈥淚 didn鈥檛 want to show black people running away from the police, fallen bodies on the ground. I wanted to show people fighting back, running towards the camera and the police.鈥?
It is with this intention that Khanyile, with the assistance of archival researcher Fanyana Hlabangane, zooms in on a particular period in South African history to unpack the conditions that led to 15- to 18-year-olds across the country giving a fuck about politics, taking to the streets and paying with their lives.

The story, while paying homage to the well-known fallen such as Hector Pieterson, does not focus on the giants that history usually selects. Instead, it is narrated by people who were there and who relay the climate that led to the day we now know as June 16.

Duma ka Ndlovu, Fatima Dike, Lefifi Tladi, Mandy Sanger, Sibongile Mkhabela, Zelda Holtzman, Abigail Kubeka and Harry Nengwe-khulu, among other prominent activists and artists, appear against a black background throughout the film, which takes viewers through the passage of time by way of personal anecdotes interspersed with super-rare footage of the decade.

Muvhango creator Ka Ndlovu talks about the importance of expelled university students in conscientising pupils in covert poetry activations unwittingly allowed by various schools in Soweto, events that would today probably be born on Facebook and Twitter via hashtags today.

Holtzman extends the uprising鈥檚 locale to the Cape, telling the stories of the youth of Khayelitsha and Langa, who were at times terrorised by state-endorsed student militia from institutions such as Stellenbosch University.

Dike, the first black female published playwright in South Africa, features extensively in the documentary. She first appears at the beginning, reciting the kind of history that black pupils received during Bantu education to harrowing images of black people being 鈥渉ewers of wood and drawers of water鈥?

Then she appears again during the climax of the film, calmly telling the catastrophic story of Xolile Mosi, who was among the first to be shot on August 11 1976 in Langa on the Cape Flats.

This is Khanyile and producer Tshego Molete Khanyile鈥檚 second feature documentary. They also made Prisoner 46764: The Untold Legacy of Andrew Mlangeni, in 2014, an important portrait that doesn鈥檛 seem to have made it into the public consciousness while Mlangeni, one of the last two remaining Rivonia trialists, is still alive.

Uprize! is the result of a call by the National Film and Video Foundation for filmmakers to produce films to commemorate 40 years since June 16 1976. One hopes that this bite-sized bit of a furthered historical narrative will have a longer lifespan than typical local documentaries, which usually have lacklustre lives after festivals.

Having already been circulated at various schools, it would be worthwhile to see a film like this added to pupils鈥?arts and history education, with the intention of countering single narratives.

Uprize! will be screened on Friday June 16 at the Bioscope in Maboneng at 5pm. Visit encounters.co.za"
"Contrasts: In his exhibition

For a long time it has been considered improper, at least in critical circles, to hold the belief that a photograph could have universal interest. This is owed in part to the power of postmodern theories of photography 鈥?most famously, those of Susan Sontag and John Berger 鈥?that told us respectively that all photographs amount to aggressive appropriations and that a photograph without narrative context is a semiotic and political problem.

That is why a small shock rippled through the room when Johannesburg Art Gallery (JAG) chief curator Khwezi Gule, at a recent press briefing, described Wolfgang Tillmans鈥檚 survey exhibition Fragile as 鈥渦niversally鈥?relatable. Gule was not only suggesting that the exhibition refers to some issues that are genuinely of broad concern (desire, death, fear, food, fun) but also that it does not take for granted the positions and tastes of its audience.

Fragile opened on a Sunday afternoon to a fairly small crowd, who stood in some light rain through four speeches before being allowed into the exhibition. In spite of its persistent tribulations, the JAG takes its wins seriously.

Fragile is a touring exhibition conceived specifically to travel to Africa, where the German-born Tillmans had never previously shown his work presented by Institut f眉r Auslandsbeziehungen (ifa) in collaboration with Wolfgang Tillmans and the Goethe-institut, the exhibition has been shown in Nairobi and Kinshasa. Earlier this year it appeared in Nairobi and Kinshasa. But the decision to head southwards is just about where the conception of the exhibition鈥檚 鈥淎fricanness鈥?ends. There are no curatorial attempts to mediate or explain the work to a far-off audience or one that craves so-called relevance. And, in fact, Gule鈥檚 invocation of universality was a gentle pre-emptive rebuttal of the idea that relevance is a relevant evaluative category at all.

Tillmans insisted that the works he would send to Africa were not 鈥渆xhibition copies鈥?or robust travel versions of the originals. They are the very same ones that only a year ago hung in the Tate Modern in London.

Why is this relevant? The JAG鈥檚 museum climate control system is about as reliable as the climate itself, and this has scared countless artists and museums out of loans to the embattled institution. But, as Tillmans demonstrates, if one is serious about the politics of more equitable access to culture, one actually has to distribute culture without prejudice, even if this involves risk.

This is an example of the quiet, committed activism of Tillmans, which manifests in what he does, rather than in provocations. The first time he came to South Africa, in 2008, was in support of the Treatment Action Campaign鈥檚 lobby for access to free antiretroviral drugs for people with HIV. Tillmans himself lives with HIV and tragically lost a belatedly diagnosed partner to Aids in 1997.

[In his exhibition, photographer Wolfgang Tillmans juxtaposes the everyday relic of his antiretroviral medication in 鈥?7 Years鈥?Supply鈥?(above) with the striking scene captured in Italian Coastal Guard Flying Rescue Mission off Lampedusa (below)]

These anecdotes glance out of his work, if you look for them. A picture titled 17 Years鈥?Supply (2014) allows us to peer into an open cardboard box full of old containers of Tillmans鈥檚 own antiretroviral medication. You have to examine the image very closely to pick this up, but it is there for anyone to see. His departed partner, artist Jochen Klein, appears in the promotional image for the exhibition, titled Deer Hirsch (1995), in which he shows his empty hands to a deer with which he had moments earlier shared his food.

[Show of love: In the photograph titled 鈥楧eer Hirsch鈥? Jochen Klein 鈥?Tillmans鈥檚 departed partner 鈥?shows his empty hands to a deer with which he had moments earlier shared his food]

Tillmans makes himself vulnerable to us in this way, at the same time as his subjects demonstrate vulnerability to him. He entered the public eye in the late 1980s and 1990s as a chronicler of the club scenes in London and Hamburg, and several works in Fragile give glimpses into this world.

[The German photographer was a chronicler of the club scenes in London and Hamburg from the late 1980s (Wolfgang Tillmans)]

However, Tillmans was no documentarian 鈥?he was as embedded in the scene as the sweating, smiling subjects in the sequence Chemistry Squares (1992), which hugs the curve of one of the JAG鈥檚 alcove spaces. The smiles of friends or potential friends are intoxicated and unaffected, even innocent. Ecstasy had just exploded as a party drug in Europe, the Cold War was over and the internet was in its infancy. The future seemed as wide open as a raver鈥檚 pupils.

Tillmans speaks about nightlife as an area of culture essential to freedom, as a collection of self-regulating communities that don鈥檛 ask for permission to exist. He supports this culture by enjoying it, but also by providing some of its infrastructure. Tillmans runs an experimental exhibition space in Berlin called Between Two Bridges, and the parties he hosts in his studio are legendary. Before finding his way into photography, he experimented as a musician and DJ, and is still actively involved in the electronic music scene in Europe. His latest release, Hamburg/S眉d (2017), is a 20-track album of atmospheric noise, vertiginous vocal effects and occasional beats. Incidentally, Fragile is also the moniker he uses for his music project.

Tillmans鈥檚 immersion in the worlds of his photographs is what has led some critics to dismiss them as snapshots. But his complicity in everything he photographs is the means by which the work operates politically. Although he has no autobiographical objectives, he photographs what he knows, and that ranges from protests to intimate moments with loved ones.

Everyone鈥檚 life looks a bit like this: a combination of the mundane, the romantic and the epic. His refusal to pay less attention to a pair of jeans than to, say, Isa Genzken 鈥?a prominent artist with whom he has collaborated in the past, and whose portrait hangs in the JAG 鈥?is his way of practising a principle that is also the title of an earlier installation not included in this show: If One Thing Matters, Everything Matters.

About the jeans: one of a few refrains in this exhibition is clothing: in piles, on people, submerged in water. Tillmans explains that an epiphany arrived one day in 1991, while he was hanging his laundry out to dry. A pair of grey jeans he had draped over a stair post, he realised, was a sculpture. But not one that could last three-dimensionally, because the jeans would need to be worn again soon. He photographed them and thus was created Grey Jeans over Stair Post. He had discovered, he explains, 鈥渢hat photography is the best way of dealing with sculptural problems鈥?

Tillmans鈥檚 sculptural thinking is clear in the Paper Drop series, a group of side-on images from the mid-2000s depicting photographic paper gently folded over itself to create a loop or teardrop shape. In these pieces, we see Tillmans treating paper sculpturally, as a material with its own surface properties and its own ways of behaving in space. In a talk at the Wits Institute for Social and Economic Research prior to the opening of Fragile, Tillmans reminded the audience that a photograph 鈥?particularly an emulsion-based one 鈥?is also a hydrograph, a record of contact between the paper and water. It is not just a place where something else is represented; a photograph is also itself.

[Shades of grey: In the 鈥楶aper Drop鈥?series, Tillmans captures photographic paper folded over itself to create teardrop shapes]

This sounds a lot like flatness-lite, a derivation of Clement Greenberg鈥檚 influential claim, in the mid-20th century, that abstract painting was about two-dimensional literalism rather than the representation of three dimensions.

Yes, Greenberg lurks; Guardian writer Jonathan Jones once called him 鈥渢he art critic who refuses to flatline鈥? But Tillmans鈥檚 literalism is, importantly, another example of politics in practice. He reminds us that sometimes a photograph simply doesn鈥檛 say anything at all. In South Africa this is especially relevant because of the historical role photography has played as a socially engaged art form. Apartheid-era documentary photography was the rest of the world鈥檚 proof of what was really going on here.

This is the paradox of photography, that it can say everything and nothing at once 鈥?that it always, in some respect, tells the truth and yet it is not to be trusted. The gratification in Fragile is that Tillmans allows this paradox to gape open while he flirts with staged portraiture, reportage, abstract formalism and personal commemoration all at once. And he invites us to look with the same freedom.

Fragile runs at the JAG until September 30. Entrance is free"
"Much of the action at the National Arts Festival in Makhanda (formerly Grahamstown) takes place on the stages, but there鈥檚 a lot going on off-stage too, with an exciting programme of thought-provoking talks and workshops to enrich and complement every Festival-goer鈥檚 experience.

Interactive audience experiences are spread across 鈥榓rtist walkabouts鈥? where the artist, curator or an art expert leads a discussion around an exhibition; visual art workshops; post-show discussions; and dozens of talks and discussions in the Critical Consciousness, Creativate Digital Arts Festival and Wordfest programmes.

Critical Consciousness

Critical Consciousness is an open platform for debate and considered opinion and features talks on subjects that vary from intellectual property for the creative industry to politics and activism to music listening sessions.

Events on this year鈥檚 Critical Consciousness programme include:

鈥?A three-part DISTELL SCRIPTWRITING WORKSHOP, facilitated by Professor Anton Krueger. The Festival recently partnered with Distell on the Distell National Playwright Competition, a platform for new writers to write plays that will be produced and staged at the Festival. This informative series of workshops will be held from 28 to 30 June at 17:30 daily. Open to writers of all ages. Young and emerging writers are particularly encouraged to attend but this workshop is only open to those over 18 years old.

鈥?Independent arts portal Ja. Magazine will present a talk on GUERILLA PUBLISHING (29 June at 11:00) and will share how their model of mixing genres and networks has filled the gap in a dwindling arts media space. The team from Ja. Magazine will also host an interactive collaging and free writing workshop, which will result in a special Festival-edition zine. This experience is called EVERYDAY DISRUPTIONS and will be at 14h00 on 1 July.

鈥?The Public Service Accountability Monitor at Rhodes University presents a debate on South Africa鈥檚 public finances 鈥?participants include the Auditor General, Kimi Makwetu, Karabo Rajulli from AmaBhungane,and Zukiswa Kota of Imali Yethu. MAKING EVERY RAND COUNT is on 27 June at 14:00.

鈥?The University of Fort Hare, Coventry University and the Arts and Humanities Council engage in the fascinating and thorny issue of INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (2 July 10:00) and Kitso Seti from the University of Cape Town and looks into the ROLE OF THE BLACK CONSCIOUSNESS MOVEMENT IN THE ARTS (1 July 15:00).

鈥?Long-time Festival partner Business and Arts South Africa will be hosting the BASA SCALE-UP WORKSHOPS. Pitched at artists and cultural organisations, these 2-hour sessions will create a dynamic networking space to share ideas, skills, knowledge and strategies aimed towards building sustainable and thriving projects and organisations. The workshops are free and take place from 29 June to 2 July.

鈥?WHO AM I? is a short series of interviews with Festival personalities that will provide Festival goers with some fascinating back story detail 鈥揺xpect conversations with Brett Bailey 鈥?Samson (30 June 11:00), Mandla Mbothwe 鈥?G7: Okwe-Bokhwe (28 June 13:00) and Qudus Onikeku 鈥?Spirit Child 2 July 14:00).

鈥?The EASTERN CAPE LITERATURE FESTIVAL LIT-FEST 2019 hones in on UNESCO鈥檚 declaration of 2019 as the year of indigenous languages and will give a platform to isiXhosa, Sesotho, sign language, Khoisan languages and others. Expect book launches, debates, and talks 鈥?including one from guest speaker Advocate Sonwabile Mancotywa.

Creativate Digital Arts Festival

Now in its second year, the Creativate Digital Arts Festival is a new facet of the Festival and is a space where the fusion of technology and the arts will be explored through a series of exhibitions, plays, talks and workshops.

All talks at Creativate are free and range from a talk by Segodi Leshalabe IS ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE THE NEXT REVOLUTION IN MUSIC? to an INSTAGRAM MASTERCLASS FOR ARTISTS, THEATRE MAKERS AND PERFORMERS with Steven van Wyk.

Other events include:

鈥?TRAIN JAM GAMING WORKSHOP, hosted bythe Goethe-institut South Africa, which will see game developers use the 20-hour train ride from Johannesburg to Makhanda to brainstorm and create serious or political games. The end result will be revealed in a talk and Q&A session on 28 June at 14:00.

鈥?Facilitated by Gareth Walwyn of the Access Music Project, ART-DUINO will be an informative, hands-on workshop where attendees will explore the introductory elements of Arduino and program their own unique artwork. During the workshop, participants will learn to code simple graphics on an RGB matrix of Neopixels. The best designs will be displayed on the National Arts Festival鈥檚 wall-sized giant LED matrix. Catch it on 29 June (11:30), 2 July (15:00) and 6 July at 10:00.

鈥?In SLAVES TO THE RHYTHM: ANALOGUE TO DIGITAL, Barry van Zyl (Johnny Clegg鈥檚 long-time drummer) and bassist Josh Hawkes (Freshlyground, Streaks, Zap Dragons) will take attendees through the seismic disruptions that have impacted the music industry, influencing the way creative output is produced and distributed. 4 July at 15:00

For more talks and workshops on Creativate, see the programme here: https://www. nationalartsfestival.co.za/ creativate-2019/

Wordfest

WORDFEST, which marks the centenary of South African literature giants Eskia Mphahlele, Noni Jabavu and Peter Abrahams this year, is a series of book launches and talks that runs during the Festival.

From the launch of I BEG TO DIFFER, written by anti-apartheid activist Peter Storey, to THE LAND IS OURS, Thembeka Ngcukaitobi鈥檚 book about the first black lawyers and the birth of constitutionalism, to RISKS AND RICHES, TJ Strydom鈥檚 book on Christo Wiese, there are 25 different literary events to attend between 29 June and 6 July at various venues.

Visual Art Workshops

For those who want to roll up their sleeves and make, there are some lovely workshops to get busy with. PRINTMAKING 101and its workshops on drypoint, monotypes and linocut relief printing will be hosted by Madelize van der Merwe on 28, 29, 30 June and 1 July. DRAWING 101 on 2 July also stretches over an afternoon spent deepening observational and drawing skills.

LIFE IN ART from Kulumba Shiri Art Gallery focuses on bringing creative life to stone and recycled materials, daily from 28 June to 3 July and 6 July. MALUWA PAPER PASSION鈥檚 Sharon Tweddle will take attendees through this wonderful craft on 3, 4 and 5 July. Prices for these workshops range between R150 and R200 per person.

Planning a Festival programme

The diversity of shows, talks, workshops and experiences at the National Arts Festival can be a little overwhelming but there are several ways to explore what鈥檚 on offer.

鈥?The 2019 National Arts Festival programme can be viewed online at https://www. nationalartsfestival.co.za/ 2019-festival/2019-programme/

鈥?The printed version can be bought for R75 plus delivery to your door via Takealot.com.https://www. takealot.com/2019-national- arts-festival-programme/ PLID54542986, or at various outlets across Makhanda.

鈥?The Festival app is another way to enjoy effortless browsing and booking on-the-go. Available for Android and Apple鈥檚 IOS, search for 鈥楴ational Arts Festival鈥?to download the latest version.

A guide to planning the trip is updated annually by the Festival.

Visit https://www. nationalartsfestival.co.za/ 2019-festival/2019-travel- stay/"
"From 30 August to 8 September 2019 the Fak鈥檜gesi African Digital Innovation Festival will return to Johannesburg to explore and celebrate technology and creativity by Africans for Africa.

The 2019 festival has cast its central theme as 鈥極wn Your Force鈥?which invites digital makers in Africa to stake their claim on their talent, industry and creative economy.

Wits University鈥檚 Tshimologong Innovation Precinct, in collaboration with partners in the Braamfontein area will be at the heart of festivities with a programme promising to yet again transform Johannesburg into a celebration of technology, creativity and innovation from across the African continent.

Now in its sixth successful year, Fak鈥檜gesi returns in 2019 after programme directors took a break from annual programming, producing a smaller program last year to focus on the festival鈥檚 vision and development. Dr Tegan Bristow, Fak鈥檜gesi African Digital Innovation Festival director says attendees can expect a fresh and energised line-up that explores screen-based digital creativity in gaming, virtual reality, mixed reality cinema and animation 鈥?with special focus on cross-sector collaboration in the region for Southern and East Africa, addressing blockchain, artificial intelligence, protection of intellectual and creative property and much more.

鈥淔ak鈥檜gesi acts as a platform that brings together diverse digital and technology sectors to collaborate and share skills in digital media and technology innovation. This year鈥檚 theme 鈥極WN YOUR FORCE鈥?centres on an African vision of the future of digital creativity by asking; who owns our digital value chain? How do we protect our creative and cultural equity in the digital world? How do we value our contributions to digital culture in an African economy? Where are the threats and the opportunities for culture and technology in Africa in a world driven by market interests?鈥?explains Bristow.

A highlight in this year鈥檚 Fak鈥檜gesi African Digital Innovation Festival programme is a conference developed in collaboration with the Goethe-institut鈥檚 Creative Entrepreneurship office, which will bring attention to the challenges of creative and digital entrepreneurship within the 4thIndustrial Revolution in Africa. In preparation, Goethe will host a forum of select contributions on 4 July 2019 at Goethe Johannesburg (seewww.fakugesi.co.za for more).

Another highlight of the 2019 programme is the annual and much-loved Fak鈥檜gesi Digital Africa Residency, which will bring together aspiring young digital artists from the SADC region. This year the project expands as young Swiss artists collaborate with their SADC counterparts. Working with Pro Helvetia and the ANT Fund for Development and Co-operation (SDC), the residency serves to highlight and develop incredible young digital talent in Southern Africa and boost their careers as important digital creatives.

Along with supporting young up-and-coming digital arts via the annual Residency, Fak鈥檜gesi African Digital Innovation Festival will be hosting a large contingent of African Digital makers to both present and attend. In 2019 Fak鈥檜gesi Festival will be working with the British Council Southern African Arts to bring up to 15 digital artists and story tellers from across the continent in the ColabNowNow project, a shared encounter with Fak鈥檜gesiFestival鈥檚 sister festival Maputo Fast Forward in Mozambique. Additionally, in partnership with the Tshimologong Precinct, Fak鈥檜gesi Festival will also host the recent Digital Lab Africa competition winners who hail from Ghana, Mali, Zimbabwe, Kenya and South Africa to represent five creative digital start-ups in Gaming, Animation, VR, Web Creation and Digital Media.

After its launch in 2018, the Fak鈥檜gesi Arcade program will run in full force this year with an emphasis on gaming in Sub-Saharan Africa. 鈥淔ak鈥檜gesi Arcade is a project within Fak鈥檜gesi Festival, a partnership with the Wits Digital Arts Department and various gaming industry partners that acts to present new work both from the region and internationally and develop a critical agenda for the development of the gaming industry in Southern Africa,鈥?says Bristow. Fak鈥檜gesi Arcade will feature a special cross-sector game-jam (scriptwriting, music, UX and Animation in gaming) and workshops to build collaboration between sectors. The Fak鈥檜gesi Arcade team will also shine a light on indigenous and urban games, which will include a participatory game in a WhatsApp chatbot by Dutch Artist Klassien van de Zandschulp titled 鈥淥utSpace鈥?

Among the array of exciting exhibitions at this year鈥檚 festival will be the Fak鈥檜gesi Digital Africa Residency Exhibition, work by Swiss Artists Andrea Gysin and Sidi Vanetti, a VR exhibition, an Animation screening in collaboration with AnimationSA, a Games Arcade and an online residency with Floating Reverie.

鈥淭he Fak鈥檜gesi African Digital Innovation Festival is the only one of its kind in Africa and the only digital arts focused festival in Sub Saharan Africa. It has risen to prominence as a platform through which many young digital makers have launched their careers and developed skills in digital media and technology innovation,鈥?adds Bristow.

For more information on the 2019 Fak鈥檜gesi African Digital Innovation Festival visit www.fakugesi.co.za."
"Fak鈥檜gesi to showcase Cultural Economies Conference

A Cultural Economies Conference will take place on 5 and 6 September 2019, presented by the Goethe-institut South Africa in Johannesburg鈥檚 Tshimologong Digital Innovation Precinct, as part of the Fak鈥檜gesi African Digital Innovation Festival running from 30 August to 8 September 2019.

The Fak鈥檜gesi African Digital Innovation Festival will explore and celebrate technology and creativity by Africans for Africa. This year, the Festival has cast its central theme as 鈥極wn Your Force鈥?which invites digital makers in Africa to stake their claim on their talent, industry and creative economy.

In the spirit of this year鈥檚 Festival theme, the Cultural Economies Conference will bring together a spectrum of contributors within the cultural and creative industries (CCI). From practitioners to policy makers, the programme will critically engage with the ecosystems and economies of local and continental CCI contexts.

The Cultural Economies Conference will feature future-focused and solutions-driven sessions that unpack the possibilities that tech and innovation offer the creative sector, with interrogation of topics such as the changing nature of storytelling and blockchain as anticipated highlights.

鈥淪takeholders from across the CCIs are invited to take part in this exciting opportunity for engagement; in the hopes that they will be able to gain insight into the thinking of the CCI around their practice, realities and visions, particularly from an African and future-focused perspective,鈥?explains Cultural Economies Conference project manager Bandile Gumbi.

Fak鈥檜gesi African Digital Innovation Festival director Dr Tegan Bristow adds: 鈥淲e are looking forward to welcoming some of the continent鈥檚 leading digital thinkers and practitioners to share with us at this year鈥檚 event.鈥?
Among Africa鈥檚 leading lights joining the Cultural Economies Conference in 2019 are CJ Obasi and Babusi Nyoni.

Hailing from Nigeria, Obasi is film director, screenwriter and editor. He is best known for his debut feature, a zero budget film titled Ojuju, which premiered at the Africa International Film Festival (AFRIFF) in November 2014, and won the award for Best Nigerian Film and earned Obasi the Trailblazer of the Year award in March 2015, at the Africa Magic Viewers鈥?Choice Awards.

Zimbabwean-born Babusi Nyoni is design strategist and innovator currently living in Amsterdam. In 2016 he created what Forbes magazine described as 鈥渢he world鈥檚 first AI football commentator鈥?for the UEFA Champions League final on behalf of Heineken. More recently, Nyoni created an app for the early diagnosis of Parkinson鈥檚 disease using computer vision. The findings we presented of which were presented at Oxford University on the Skoll World Forum stage in April this year.

As a conference through line, Colliding Ecosystems explores the spaces of increasing overlap between the creative and digital industries; in particular taking into account the different contexts and ecosystems in which entrepreneurs need to be able to operate effectively. Economies Of Trust considers what these ecosystems are and need to be, in order to support 鈥榤akers鈥? who often find themselves needing to both produce within, as well as be, the ecosystems for their work.

The conference will also interrogate socially orientated vs traditionally capitalist approaches in the context of (intellectual) property ownership and the crossover between the fourth industrial revolution and the cultural and creative industries.

In a session looking at Ecosystems of Tech-Knowledge-y, a panel of practitioners will offer their scene-setting perspectives on the intersections between the CCI and digital ecosystems. A look at the legal, policy and communications Frameworks in which these sectors are required to operate hopes to clarify perspectives on pertinent issues.

In addition, deeper consideration of the Changing Currencies operating in these new economic contexts requires looking at social (as) currency in the 4IR, and the investment required to operate in these changing marketplaces. These ideas are mined in a conversation around 鈥楥ommunications as the currency of the digital economy鈥?

A session on 鈥楽torytelling as Africa鈥檚 value proposition鈥?will unpack suggestions for dismantling power structures and hierarchies of visual storytelling across genres and media. Additional engagement will be driven by tech-facilitated creative solutions and mechanisms for digital innovation for the creative sector; including how tech solutions are changing the game, using blockchain, smart contracts and digital copyright solutions.

Lesley Williams, CEO of Tshimologong Digital Innovation Precinct, which will host the Fak鈥檜gesi Festival for a sixth year says the precinct is a natural meeting point for the digital arts community in Africa and across the globe. 鈥淭his is where African digital artists interact with counterparts from around the world, collaborate around best practice and create something truly memorable,鈥?she says.

For more information on the Fak鈥檜gesi African Digital Innovation Festival visit www.fakugesi.co.za. Tickets available via Quicket.co.za."
"The future of journalism is about the future of democracy, but all over the world journalism is in a crisis - a crisis that threatens not only the journalism sector but democracy itself.

All the panellists. Picture 漏 Goethe-institut South Africa.

鈥淒efending the rights of journalists is about the right of freedom of expression in South Africa and Germany,鈥?says Martin Sch盲fer, the German Ambassador to South Africa, in his address to guests to the Future of Journalism Series, Part 1: Media Credibility.

Sector in decline

The event, held at the Goethe-institut, which also hosted the event together with Embassy of the Federal Republic of Germany and Media Monitoring Africa, discussed the topic through a panel facilitated by the SABC鈥檚 Tsepiso Makwetla.

Panellist, Holger Stark, Die Zeit & Zeit Online, Germany, says while we live in the best of times, there is no question that journalism is in a crisis. 鈥淭his is not a South African problem, but a worldwide one. Journalism circumstances have changed dramatically, and the sector is in decline.鈥?
The collapse of journalism is also indicative of the society we live in, says Chris Vick, spin doctor and media strategist. 鈥淭here is an ethical collapse in South African society - think of the Tiger Brands, KPMG and McKinsey scandals. As South Africans we are affected by these scandals,鈥?he says.

Time to check facts

It is when journalism falls short in terms of credibility, that there is a crisis, adds Nikiwe Bikitsha, broadcaster and journalist. 鈥淗owever, recent research shows that contrary to what we see online, there is a lot of trust in the news with 49% of people surveyed trusting the news. The problem is that over 70% of people cannot distinguish between real and fake news,鈥?she says

Stark points out that this is exactly why journalists must distinguish themselves.

Journalists must not add to the noise out there. They need to take the time to check facts.

Panellist, Dr Glenda Daniels, Wits Media Studies, says while the sector is doing a good job, as stories such as the Gupta Leaks prove, journalists must agree that there is a credibility problem. 鈥淎ll journalists have an agenda, but if you deal with the facts and move away from the social media space the sector can get its credibility back.鈥?
Guided by the press code

She adds that social media and blogging are not journalism.

Public relations (PR) officers are also calling themselves journalists. They are not and we need to separate journalism from these activities.

There are six PROs for every one journalist in the United States (US) says Vick. 鈥淭he commercialism and globalisation of the media is undermining and eroding the quality of journalism and making it easier for PR companies to get their articles on the news. Bell Pottinger is a good example of this,鈥?he says.

Bikitsha adds that the Constitution gives the media a lot of power.

Therefore, we need to be held to that standard. We must be guided by the press code to provide news that is true, fair and accurate. This is the standard journalists must hold themselves accountable to.

Vick agrees. 鈥淚n any society, the role of the media is to hold the powerful accountable. That must make us humble, not the elite of a society.鈥?
Marketing & Media News in South Africa,,Subscribe to daily business and company news across 19 industries"


"Subscribe to daily business and company news across 19 industries

SUBSCRIBE"
"Subscribe to daily business and company news across 19 industries

SUBSCRIBE"
"The question of human remains and cultural material held in European ethnographic museums is also a question of the largely devastating afterlives of European colonial rule. (John McCann/M&G)

In the museum world, particularly in Europe, conferences and workshops around 鈥渄ecolonising鈥?colonial collections and what to do with stolen artifacts turned ethnographic objects have become commonplace. Small parts of those collections are displayed in exhibition halls while much of the material culture and human remains from Africa are kept in boxes, locked up in basement storerooms. European museums often invite artists and activists from Africa and the diaspora to 鈥渕ine the museum.鈥?Namibian scholar and artist Nashilongweshipwe Mushaandja names this 鈥減ractice of museuming鈥?as one that asks the victims of colonialism to handle its baggage.

The issue is pressing and it is taking place on the African continent too, which is how the Goethe-institut Namibia came to run a conference in Windhoek, the country鈥檚 capital, called 鈥淢useum Conversations.鈥?The conference concluded a series of regional meetings with key stakeholders in the museums sector from around Africa and Europe. In the opening speech, the director Daniel Stoevesandt explained that Goethe-institut is positioning itself as a facilitator on the continent, creating connections between regional stakeholders and players in the field.

鈥淢useum Conversations鈥?included a range of voices from around the continent. Prominent scholars in the museum sector, such as George Abungu from Kenya and Ciraj Rassool from South Africa, advocated for the need to urgently address the histories of violence in the museum in order to shape the museum of the future. Veteran educator and activist Mandy Sanger from the District Six Museum in Cape Town spoke about how hierarchies of suffering and trauma are used as currency in these conversations. Others, like Wandile Kasibe of Iziko Museums of South Africa, likened museums to crime scenes, highlighting the complicity of museums in maintaining the silences of the crimes committed during the colonial period, including theft, murder, and genocide.

So how are European museums addressing the question of return, restitution, and repatriation? For the most part, not very well. From personal experience, in attending many of these kinds of forums, the return or repatriation discussion is still framed as a 鈥渄ebate鈥?and I get the sense from colleague-elders that these 鈥渄ebates鈥?have been going on for a very long time. To quote the title of a text by Eve Tuck and K. Wayne Yang: 鈥淒ecolonisation is not a metaphor.鈥?It is time to move from talk to action.

Here is an example, involving the German return of Namibian artifacts, that treats decolonisation as a metaphor. Facilitated by the Museums Association of Namibia, 20 objects will soon be returned from a German museum with conditions: 1) the objects are initially loaned for a three-year period after which the Namibians can apply for a permanent loan; and 2) the Namibian government must fund the return of the objects in addition to other costs involved, like the process of cleaning the artifacts鈥攔emoving the poisons and toxins used by conservators to preserve them for posterity. The German government claims that the loans system is a way to bypass German laws around ownership. Some others have argued that the artifacts of African origin have an entangled and shared heritage as they now belong to both Europe and Africa. But this a shared history based on violence and theft. Can one really claim ownership of something that was stolen?

The question of human remains and cultural material held in European ethnographic museums is also a question of the largely devastating afterlives of European colonial rule. The extractive nature of colonialism meant that European nations could build their countries鈥?wealth through the extraction of culture, resources and people from Africa. Colonialism enforces displacement, and while the period of formal European colonialism has ended in Africa, coloniality persists. As Walter Mignolo argues, coloniality 鈥渋s the continuing hidden process of expropriation, exploitation, pollution, and corruption that underlies the narrative of modernity, as promoted by institutions and actors belonging to corporations, industrialised nation-states, museums, and research institutions.鈥?
The issue at hand also seems to be that European Museums as instruments of the state suffer from what Anne Laura Stoler calls colonial aphasia鈥斺€淚n aphasia, an occlusion of knowledge is the issue. It is not a matter of ignorance or absence.鈥?
We cannot keep having debates for the next 50 years. We need strategic intervention. A more productive use of the time for museum professionals in Germany for example would be to lobby the government to create policy to speed up the returns process. In September 2019, B茅n茅dicte Savoy, who together with Felwine Sarr authored the report commissioned by Emanuel Macron: Rapport sur la restitution du patrimoine culturel africain, has, with others, set up the appeal 鈥淥pen Museums Inventories of African Artifacts.鈥?It relates to the German context and demands that public museums and authorities in charge in Germany:

鈥?make the inventories of African objects in their respective collections available worldwide as quickly as possible, regardless of the degree of completeness or supposed perfection of these inventories. Simple scans and lists are sufficient. We need them now. Only then can the dialogue begin.

That dialogue should then be one that focuses on how Europeans can return objects in a way that respects their original purposes (sometimes spiritual or ritual) and without putting the burden of that labour on Africans. It should also be one that asks not whether African museums have the conditions to preserve and exhibit such objects but, rather, how to create spaces that don鈥檛 operate with colonial logics.

As Namibian scholar and artist, Memory Biwa asks: 鈥淎re there other spaces that we can create where communities themselves can narrate histories of objects?鈥?
This article was first published on Africa is a Country"
"Former combatants: From left, Z Mtwazi (Bra Tiger), Lulama Kabane (George Naledi), Velaphi Mavela Mabuza (Dick Boyce). (Tshepiso Mabula)

Digging (for information), exhumation and obfuscation have all become synchronised rituals of postapartheid life in South Africa.

Tshepiso Mabula鈥檚 photographic exhibition, Ukugrumba, examines the performative aspects of this ritual, as well as the trauma that is prolonged by its narrow politicisation.

鈥淢y uncle [Dimati Simon Mabula] went into exile to join Umkhonto weSizwe [MK] in 1985,鈥?says Mabula. 鈥淗e had come back by the time I was born. When I think about it now, the way to articulate how he was [mentally] was that he hadn鈥檛 dealt with all the trauma that he experienced during that period. He was very depressed. He was drinking all the time. I didn鈥檛 know that he had been with MK until after his funeral in 2006. When I was looking for something meaningful to do with my photography, his story was the one that sort [of] came to me and that branched out to me talking to families of former combatants.鈥?
If an air of sombreness permeates the photographs, it is probably intentional. A walkabout at the Market Photo Workshop, where the work is on show, carries the quiet restlessness of a war鈥檚 aftermath. Mabula achieves this by following her story to the many corners of South Africa: as far south as Port Elizabeth, where she visits disillusioned former combatant Menzi Buhlele; as far north as Modimolle, where she visits her uncle鈥檚 old haunts.

The spaces in between are just as bleak. Mabula follows the story of the Munsieville Four from exhumation to reburial. The Munsieville Four were Pan African Congress (PAC) members who were given the death sentence in 1963 following their murder of a police officer. In Ukugrumba, we see the PAC make a show of the reburial, with a guard of honour rolling through the shacks of Munsieville as some among the onlookers make the open-palm PAC salute.

uPoqo Aka Bethwa 鈥?a priest blesses the new graves of the Munsieville Four. (Tshepiso Mabula)

In another beautifully composed image made on the day of the reburial, we see the rear half of a coffin partially draped in a PAC flag. Through the sidelong, rear angle the photograph is taken from, we see the backs, arms and shoulders of three pallbearers and only the arm of a fourth. One man鈥檚 bereted head is visible, bent at an angle to accommodate the coffin. There is a militaristic resolve to the manner in which the men have hoisted the coffin onto their shoulders, no matter the story of their numerical attrition. 鈥淢unsieville [on the West Rand] remains a strong PAC community,鈥?says Mabula. 鈥淚 wanted to touch on the erasure the PAC feels as well: how their history had been rewritten.鈥?
At a critique session in Cape Town earlier in the project鈥檚 development, Mabula says she had a telling interaction with a former ANC politician, who had been a senior member of MK. 鈥淚n the beginning I found him very defensive and not really wanting to confront the issues the project was raising,鈥?she says. 鈥淎s I carried on showing him the work he seemed to open up, but there was a level of trying to protect the ANC specifically from being held accountable.鈥?
In Ukugrumba, one witnesses a photographer grappling with finding a cohesive language to represent various traumatic occurrences like arrest, torture, disappearance, betrayal and remembrance. Mabula also weaves a thread around the experiences of women, a number who participated not merely as appendages to men but as agents in their own liberation.

Mabula turns to re-enactment to deliver the story of Phila Ndwandwe, a young ANC commander who would not break under interrogation, fashioning undergarments out of plastic packets when she had been left exposed for days. In a trilogy of images, we are forced to confront Ndwandwe鈥檚 womanhood.

Busisiwe Tedile (combat name: Sibongile); a representation of Phila Ndwandwe, an ANC operative who was tortured. (Tshepison Mabula)

There is the naked upper body of an unidentifiable woman, her hands crossed above her head, evoking Ndwandwe鈥檚 torture by her captors. In the next image are the floating plastic remains of what Ndwandwe soon turned into underwear to preserve her dignity. The final image is taken from a wardrobe: a black nightdress and boots, alluding perhaps to her motherhood and her resolve as an ANC combatant.

In Antjie Krog鈥檚 keynote address at the Goethe-institut鈥檚 脺ber(W)unden: Art in Troubled Times conference, she quotes Ndwandwe鈥檚 mother, unaware that the secret grave of her daughter lay within 10km of her own home, as saying: 鈥淚 cannot bear the fact that all these years she was in a grave a mere 10km away from me and I didn鈥檛 know that. I didn鈥檛 feel that. My previous grief suddenly seems like such a luxury.鈥?
Elsewhere, Mabula seeks continuities between South Africa鈥檚 past and present. They are not hard to find. In Sebokeng, she tracks the story of Papi Tobias, who disappeared after participating in a housing-related protest in Boiketlong. She photographs his shack, abandoned since his disappearance: the dishes, cutlery and sink gathering dust. 鈥淭he dust, I thought that was visually powerful,鈥?she says.

Most things in Ukugrumba seem to return us to the dust. The tavern in Modimolle, where her uncle watched out the remainder of his days, is itself a bowl of windswept desolation. It鈥檚 easy to forget that its peeling walls, one boasting a declaration that 鈥淟ocal is lekker鈥?hold the momentary joy of several souls fated to Zamalek-stained oblivion.

Mabula says this is just the beginning of her project. 鈥淭here is a lot of information that is not part of the everyday conversation, when it comes to how our history fits the present,鈥?she says. 鈥淪o I am continuing with the work, looking at the people who are political prisoners 鈥?how that plays into the conversation around reconciliation.鈥?
How to save cloud from complexity,2019-06-05 22:01:29+00:00,By DOUG WOOLLEY"

 cloud and similar technologies emerged to offer new capacities and optimisation. Companies were able to vastly simplify their technology stacks

 real-time data

 whereas today the number is more than 35. That鈥檚 a 59 percent increase in complexity.

 private clouds

 but to point out that we never bought into a blue-skies view of cloud. The complexity was bound to return. If it isn鈥檛 contained and disciplined





 services and consumption options. It also can鈥檛 exist to try and cap your cloud capabilities for the sake of stability. Cloud management has to remain dynamic to allow for the agility

 infrastructure management and mature business thinking. When a company wants to avoid or untangle the new complexities wrought by cloud

 so let鈥檚 start talking.



 000 cases reported over the last financial year

 the trending term for technology designed specifically for the agricultural sector and its unique challenges. Agri-tech has the potential to mitigate the loss of livestock

 delivers an elegantly layered platform for livestock management and security. FarmRanger uses a combination of animal collar and app. The collars are fitted to a select number of animals in the herd 鈥?for sheep it is approximately one animal per 300 鈥?and constantly monitor the movement of the sheep and

 Product Manager of FarmRanger. 鈥淗owever
 historical animal positions

 a track record that spans more than 20 years

 cementing FarmRanger鈥檚 reputation and reliability.

 is continuously undergoing innovation and development to ensure it remains relevant and on the edge of what agri-tech can offer


"Can one become a professional gamer in South Africa? Julia Robson tells ARTHUR GOLDSTUCK how she did it

The scene is Duggal Greenhouse in Brooklyn, overlooking New York鈥檚 East River. The occasion is the annual Next@Acer press conference, where the computer brands unveils its latest cutting edge gaming machines.

For some attendees, it is business as usual, yet another launch of yet another range of computers and laptops. For Acer, it is the beginning of a new chapter. It is unveiling its first computers designed specifically for creative professionals, and introducing a new series of Chromebooks, the low-cost devices usually made for the education sector, but this time aimed at businesses.

And it has a special guest in attendance. For Julia Robson, professional gamer, it is a trip of a lifetime.

Pic by Arthur Goldstuck

鈥淚 could have been a dentist,鈥?she muses, gazing at the New York skyline. Instead, she spends her days playing video games 鈥?and getting paid for it. She gave up dentistry two years into her degree, and today is affiliated with some of the biggest companies in gaming. She is at the event in her capacity as a gaming ambassador for Acer.

鈥淚鈥檓 probably the worst person to be a role model for a career,鈥?she says. 鈥淏ut I was a serious competitive gamer for three years prior to starting my dentistry degree. During my studies, I competed locally and got scouted by a brand who offered me a full-time job. It was a viable career choice for me: I did enough research to take the decision to put my studies on hold.鈥?
It鈥檚 now been two years, and Julia says she is privileged to be able to say esports is her job.

鈥淚 am officially a professional video gamer. That means I compete at a high level in esports, locally. During this period I decided to build a gaming brand for myself, under my gaming nickname Bish. I use my gaming platform to share my gaming experiences, and also live stream to my Twitch community, where I share in real time with fans and interact with them.鈥?
As part of being sponsored by Acer, she helps them interact with the gaming community and direct marketing strategy into the right areas. She is attending the event specifically to see what鈥檚 coming next in gaming.

鈥淎cer approached me with the idea of collaborating not only in the sense of being a brand ambassador, but also to help them increase their knowledge of the esports and local gaming community in South Africa. I鈥檓 employed by them part-time, and I spend one day in the office and am on standby every other day.鈥?
Her main game is Apex Legends, and at the time of the interview she was forming a team to take on the Apex Legends League.

鈥淚 see a lot of potential in the sports and feel the game will go far, so I decided to create a team with highly skilled players that I scouted at events. The dream is to go global. If we have the opportunity to compete internationally, we will work twice as hard, sleep less and game more, just to make sure we can attend.鈥?
Julia is cautious about recommending gaming as a career.

鈥淚 would look at what options there are. I never want to say you can be a gamer and can do whatever you want. There are multiple opportunities in esports, and research will shine a light on how many available careers and courses there are that you can take to direct your passion into esports. I always recommend finding something you鈥檙e good at, still go to university or continue your studies, but look at how you can adapt your career choice into the esports industry.

鈥淚f you check out esportsobserver.com, which lets you look up jobs in esports, you will see multiple jobs posted daily for people, for example, who have business degrees but also three years鈥?experience in esport. Do it for the love or passion for esports, but ultimately do it with the knowledge of what is required.鈥?
Arthur Goldstuck is founder of World Wide Worx and editor-in-chief of Gadget.co.za. Follow him on Twitter and Instagram on @art2gee

Click here to read about the Twitch streaming experience, and how high women can go in e-sports."
"The fears of technology stealing jobs are exaggerated, but that depends on your job, writes ARTHUR GOLDSTUCK

As robots migrate from science fiction to the real world, their image as killers has also migrated 鈥?but this time the fear is that they will kill off our jobs. The evidence, however, suggests that their effect will be the exact opposite of these fears.

One can go all the way back to the dawn of the industrial revolution and the first manufacturing machine: the spinning jenny, which began the automation of weaving. There is one small statistic from that revolution that is seldom mentioned, says Tom Raftery, global vice president and futurist for software giants SAP.

鈥淭he spinning jenny was the first mechancial loom,鈥?he said during the recent Saphila conference at Sun City, where SAP users and developers network and share information. 鈥淭here were 7900 spinners and loomers in the United Kingdom at the time, in 1760. They had riots, but by 1790 the number of spinners and weavers rose to 320,000, because spinning jennies could make yarn cheaper and better quality than the manual process.鈥?
In fact, the riots were provoked not by the fear of machines taking away jobs, as myth has it, but rather because they brought the price of cotton and cloth crashing down. But that, too, resulted in a boom rather than the market collapsing, as had been feared.

鈥淏ecause of increased demand as more people could afford to buy manufactured clothes, economies of scale kicked in, the quality kept increasing, and they needed supply chains to supply the factories. For that they needed distribution mechanisms, and that led to more roads, railways, and ultimately the industrial revolution.鈥?
In the same way, it is anticipated that, rather than jobs disappearing as a result of the widespread advent of robots, we will see a process called labour switching.

Raftery quotes a study by Deloitte, which found that, as organisations embrace and adopt robotics and AI, they are finding that virtually every job can be redesigned, thus creating new categories of work.

Deloitte鈥檚 2019 Global Human Capital Trends report asked, 鈥淎re jobs going away due to technology?鈥?
The answer was mixed but reassuring: 鈥淲hile some may be eliminated, our view is that many more are changing鈥?only 13 percent believe automation will eliminate a significant number of positions, far different from our findings on this score only a few years ago.鈥?
The value of automation and AI, Deloitte said, 鈥渓ies not in the ability to replace human labor with machines, but in augmenting the workforce and enabling human work to be reframed in terms of problem-solving and the ability to create new knowledge鈥?

Raftery pointed to some unexpected results of the growing number of skilled jobs and, by extension, better-paid young people.

鈥淓mployment in professional services has gone way up, as have numbers of bar staff, and the number of hairdressers 鈥?as we have more money to enjoy ourselves, as we have more money to improve our appearance.

鈥淣ew jobs are being created by technology all the time. How many of your job titles existed 5 years ago, 10, 15? More than 60% of the global workforce in 1900 was employed in agriculture and manufacture. Today it is 11%, and we don鈥檛 have vast unemployment in those areas. Robots won鈥檛 take our jobs, they will be creating jobs.鈥?
Raftery pointed to five industries that will be dramatically affected by emerging technologies like artificial intelligence, big data, robotics, and cloud computing. These make up the so-called fourth industrial revolution, a phrase commonly bandied about in South African government circles, but with little awareness of what it truly represents.

In healthcare, manufacturing, energy, transportation, and food production, he said, we can expect to see a decimation of existing jobs 鈥?a prospect that the Government will find somewhat difficult to sell to the labour unions. However, each of these sectors will see a massive demand for new jobs and skills. Already, the cybersecurity industry, which in effect has to secure the data of every one of these sectors, is reporting a desperate shortage of skills, both in South Africa and globally.

Manufacturing, seemingly the most boring of all industries, will present us with the most fascinating opportunities and challenges.

Said Raftery, 鈥淲e are seeing a move to 3D printing, to mass customisation, which is really product-as-a-service. Fiat is building a modular electric car that one can endlessly customise, down to the battery pack. You can even order an extra 500km of range for the weekend, getting a more expensive battery just for the weekend when you need it.鈥?
United Parcel Service, an American delivery and supply chain management company, has grasped one of the big opportunities offered by 3D printing of products on demand.

鈥淎t present UPS has a huge business storing parts for customers,鈥?said Raftery. 鈥淭hey hold US$1.8-trillion worth of customer stock in their warehouses. Now they鈥檝e partnered with SAP to launch a spare parts 3D printing business. They鈥檙e going through a certification process with customers to sign off that their 3D printed parts are as good as the originals. Then the products will be digitised and put in digital warehouse and can be sent anywhere in world.鈥?
Some of the world鈥檚 biggest technology manufacturers are getting in on the act.

Last week, HP Inc formally opened the doors of a massive new 3D Printing and Digital Manufacturing Centre of Excellence in Barcelona. It provides a large-scale factory environment to collaborate with customers and partners on digital manufacturing technologies.

During our visit to the Centre earlier this year, Nick Lazaridis, president of HP for Europe, Middle East and Africa, told us that many companies made the mistake of thinking of the industry in terms of sales of printers and materials.

鈥淚f you had a total monopoly of 3D printing, the market would be worth around $40-billion. But if you look at the industry that this is going to disrupt, namely manufacturing, that鈥檚 a $12-trillion industry.鈥?
As with Raftery, however, he predicted that 3D printing will have a massive impact on distribution, warehousing and energy needs.

鈥淭his smartphone or bottle is being manufactured in a low-cost country. But you have to build factories, manufacture the products, warehouse them, put them on planes and boats, warehouse them again, put them on trucks again, before they arrive on the shelves. That leaves behind a massive carbon footprint.

鈥淲hen you talk 3D printing, you can design in Spain or South Africa, you can manufacture on demand in South Africa, and deliver in 24 hours because it is printed in a warehouse a few blocks from where you live. You don鈥檛 build a hundred thousand units hoping to sell them; you build on demand.鈥?
Obviously, robots, 3D printing and every other expression of the fourth industrial revolution will kill off jobs. But equally obviously, the jobs they create, in turn, will not only be better jobs, they will also be better for our planet."
"A new Kaspersky survey has discovered that a lack of understanding and trust is holding consumers back from using cryptocurrencies. Kaspersky鈥檚 report, 鈥楿ncharted territory: why consumers are still wary about adopting cryptocurrency鈥? reveals that whilst 34% of South Africans have some knowledge of cryptocurrencies and there is a demand among many to use the technology, just 19% fully comprehend how they work.

The rate in which cryptocurrencies are being adopted by global consumers is slowing down, despite celebrities like Johnny Depp and YouTube influencers such PewDiePie embracing the technology. Many consumers still lack a proper understanding of how cryptocurrencies work and this is continuing to halt mainstream adoption. To date, 70% of South Africans have never purchased cryptocurrency, highlighting just how far away we are from it being accepted as a common form of payment or investment.

Kaspersky鈥檚 survey found that there is a desire amongst many consumers to use cryptocurrency, but a knowledge gap is getting in the way of taking the plunge. In addition, many people who thought they knew what they are dealing with, later decided against using cryptocurrency. Nearly a fifth (14%) stopped because it became too technically complicated.

This lack of understanding could be leading to mistrust in cryptocurrencies鈥?ability to keep consumers鈥?money safe. For instance, 35% of South African respondents stated that they believe cryptocurrencies are quite volatile and they need to be stabile before they are prepared to use them. There is also a common perception amongst consumers thatcryptocurrency will not be around forever. 17% locally believe cryptocurrencies are a fad that is not worth bothering about.

While widespread interest in cryptocurrencies may have already peaked, there is still a demand to use the technology. 22% of those surveyed in South Africa said that while they are not using cryptocurrency at the moment, they would like to in the future. Yet there is still doubt amongst consumers 鈥?often led by a fear that there is a real risk to their finances. Fraudsters can use cryptocurrencies to their advantage, with around 5% of those surveyed locally saying they have experienced hacking attacks on exchanges. Criminals also create fake e-wallets to attract people to unwisely invest their money, and 16% of local consumers have been victims of cryptocurrency fraud.

Following several years of cybersecurity research into crypto start-ups, Kaspersky recommends crypto businesses adopt best security practices for smart contract developers, use proven frameworks for smart contracts (such as https://openzeppelin.org/) and conduct a third-party assessment of the smart contract to ensure any potential vulnerabilities are not missed.

鈥淚t is clear that mainstream adoption and growth of cryptocurrency is being held back due to the vulnerable nature of the technology. While there is a high appetite to use it, giving your hard-earned cash to something you don鈥檛 fully understand, or trust, is a hurdle. With the safety of investments being of paramount importance to consumers, it is vital that they take their own steps to safeguard it. Like with any cyberthreat, there is no substitute for vigilance 鈥?if something looks too good to be true, then it probably is. If you want to tradecrypto-assets on any exchange, pay attention to the safety of your account鈥檚 credentials. If your goal is long-term investment or use cryptocurrencies for payments, then store it in safe environments and use multiple wallets or distribute between both software and hardware. We also encourage crypto businesses to organise themselves effectively to show they are able to protect their customers鈥?investments,鈥漋italy Mzokov, Head of Commercialisation at Kaspersky comments.

To help improve stability and foster trust in cryptocurrencies, Kaspersky partners such as Merkeleon have developed legitimate marketplace platforms, online auction platforms,cryptocurrency exchanges and crypto payment systems.

鈥淐ryptocurrency certainly has its benefits but, as we can see, many consumers are still unaware of what they are due to concerns over security and how the technology works. It is an exciting industry to be involved in, but it is one that is built upon trust. It is, therefore, imperative that cryptocurrency businesses do all they can to protect their networks and ensure their customers鈥?finances are safe and secure,鈥?explains Alexey Sidorowich, Head of Sales and Business Development at Merkeleon.

For further information on how we provide transparent and powerful protection for crypto-trading platforms and token offering projects, please click here. To learn more about protection for consumers, please visit our website.

To find out more about how consumers feel towards cryptocurrencies, visit https://www.kaspersky.com/blog/cryptocurrency-report-2019/"
"Thanks to the recent arrival of multi-national data centres in the country, the cloud has become a business priority. It is an essential tool in how a company remains competitive in a continually changing digital environment. Within this context, enterprise resource planning (ERP) solutions have a critical role to play.

And this is reflected in the momentum of the cloud worldwide.

Gartner estimated that the global public cloud services market will grow 17.3 percent this year to $206.2 billion, up from the $175.8 billion in 2018. But this does not mean the cloud is a silver bullet that can solve all organisational challenges. There must still be a fundamental strategic value in making the transition, whether it is through ERP solutions or simply accessing documents collaboratively.

In South Africa, with its growing small to medium enterprise (SME) market, ERP has become something of an anathema. Thanks to how it has been positioned in the past, ERP is viewed as expensive, cumbersome, and inflexible solutions that integrate different business components. And while there is some truth to this, the modern ERP environment is quite a different one, especially for the small business sector.

Cloud first

Part of this can be attributed to the success of the cloud when it comes to delivering more secure solutions more cost-effectively using more computational power than what a business can afford to have on site. Even so, SMEs do not care about the cloud or even ERP as a concept. They just want to get business value as cost effectively as possible with the minimum amount of disruption to existing operations.

If anything, ERP in the digital landscape (within the focus of the cloud) should be viewed as a more intelligent way of managing a business. Irrespective of whether a company is using public, private, or hybrid cloud services, ERP must be able to integrate data and deliver on business expectations with an all-in-one solution that transcends IT knowledge.

ERP is vital in the modern environment driven by data. Consider some of these statistics. By 2020, every person will generate approximately 1.7MB of data per second. Also, by that year, the accumulated volume of big data will increase from the current 4.4 zettabytes to approximately 44 zettabytes (equal to 44 trillion GB). Google now processes more than 40 000 search queries per second. According to InternetLiveStats.com, when the company was founded in 1998, it was serving 10 000 search queries per day.

Cost-effectiveness

Furthermore, the much-touted cost benefits of going the cloud route is not something to ignore. With corporate budgets under pressure, everything from human resources to IT spend need to be managed. And with cloud providers offering all these services in a hosted environment, companies can focus less on spending resources on hardware and software upgrades, and more on delivering strategic objectives.

Another significant advantage of going the cloud route, is its ability to scale up or down according to the needs of the business. Instead of purchasing additional servers or expanding an on-site data warehouse, the cloud provider has the required functionality to add capacity.

An ERP world

One of the advantages of migrating to the cloud is that the solutions (irrespective of what function they fulfil) will automatically be updated when new features become available. No more worrying about patching or updating software.

A cloud-driven ERP environment provides a more secure way of benefitting from a digital approach to business. Given the complexities of regulatory compliance, it is all about keeping data safe, available, and online using dedicated resources tailored to the specific needs of the business, irrespective its size or industry sector."
Thank you for Signing Up
"Animation is currently a sought after skill in nearly every creative space. From traditional media to app and game development, animation has become an essential part of the creative toolkit.

While the path to a career in animation has traditionally been difficult and inaccessible to most, a local animation studio is trying to make learning the basic skills needed to pursue a career in animation accessible to all.

Triggerfish is the South African studio that has received international acclaim for Adventures in Zambezia (2012) and Khumba (2013) which are among the top 5 highest-grossing South African feature films of all time.

Triggerfish Academy represents a partnership between Triggerfish, the German Federal Ministry of Economic Development and Cooperation and the Goethe-institut.

It is a free digital learning platform intended to show the career opportunities in the field as well as the basic skills needed for a career in animation.

Tim Argall designed the course and managed to include some of the brightest stars in South African animation to contribute to the content. Argall explains:

鈥淎s kids, animation is part of our lives, so we don鈥檛 really think about the idea that animation is actually somebody鈥檚 job. When I was a kid, I loved animation, and I loved to draw. I remember when I was about 12, I thought: 鈥業 really want to see my drawings come to life. I want to be an animator.鈥?But I had no idea where to even begin.鈥?
Triggerfish Academy tutors. Image supplied

For Argall, Triggerfish Academy is his attempt to create an accessible entry point into the world of animation for Africa鈥檚 future storytellers and animators.

Triggerfish Academy is designed so that users can work through the content on their own or facilitated by a teacher as part of a lesson plan.

Schools, NGOs and other animation studios who wish to use Triggerfish Academy can contact Triggerfish for additional resources. Noemie Njangiru, head of Culture and Development at Goethe-institut Johannesburg, added:

鈥淏y the end of working through this course, you鈥檒l have all the background you need to know whether animation is a good choice for your career.鈥?
Watch: Unboxing animation"

"Artificial intelligence (AI) spending in the Middle East and Africa (MEA) is poised to reach $290 million this year, rising to $530 million in 2022, according to the latest forecast from International Data Corporation (IDC). The global technology research and consulting firm expects investment in AI across the region to grow 42.5% year on year in 2019 and continue increasing at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 22.2% over the 2019-2022 period.

IDC鈥檚 research shows that the top three industries in terms of AI investment in 2019 will be banking, manufacturing, and retail. These industries will remain the top three through 2022, although spending by federal/central governments across MEA will see the strongest growth of the region鈥檚 top five verticals, increasing at a CAGR of 26.3%.

The three most popular use cases 鈥?automated customer service agents, automated threat intelligence and prevention systems, and fraud analysis and investigation 鈥?will account for a combined 31.4% of AI investment across MEA in 2019. These use cases are expected to retain their positions throughout the forecast period, with spending on automated customer service agents growing the fastest at a CAGR of 25.8% to reach $66 million in 2022.

According to an extensive IDC survey conducted earlier this year among CIOs from across the Middle East, the top five drivers fueling demand for AI systems are the desire to improve customer support, augment marketing activities, boost overall efficiency, enhance the quality of products and services, and drive sales. Such benefits have become the hallmark of artificial intelligence as the technology advances and organizations wake up to its groundbreaking potential to revolutionize the way they work.

鈥淪pending on AI in the MEA region this year is set to almost double from where it stood in 2017, which reflects the huge growth in interest we have seen around this technology over the last 18 months,鈥?says Jyoti Lalchandani, IDC鈥檚 group vice president and managing director for the Middle East, Turkey, and Africa. 鈥淚nvestments in artificial intelligence are being driven by the promise, opportunity, and excitement of a new wave of automation that not only drives inefficiency out of processes but also changes how people interact with the digital world around them. Indeed, the use of AI-based automation and the changing relationship between employees and increasingly intelligent machines will drive opportunities to evaluate and enhance existing business processes in ways that have not been seen since the early 1990s.鈥?
The abundant opportunities presented by artificial intelligence will feature prominently when the ICT industry鈥檚 leading vendors and most influential end users gather at Dubai鈥檚 Hilton Al Habtoor City on February 26-27 next year for the IDC Middle East CIO Summit 2020. Running under the theme 鈥楾he Race to Reinvent: Connecting Leaders to Empower Digital Transformation鈥? the event will represent the region鈥檚 largest ever gathering of CIOs, with more than 500 delegates expected to attend.

Four artificial intelligence (AI) partners will be on hand to showcase the very latest developments in this exciting technology, while respected global CIOs from across the vertical spectrum will be in attendance to share case studies around their own digital transformation exploits and answer questions from their peers in the region.

Combining expert insights, dedicated LoB sessions, industry-focused tracks, unrivaled networking opportunities, and a series of specialist training bootcamps, the IDC Middle East CIO Summit 2020 promises to provide the perfect platform for end users to benchmark their DX progress and for the industry鈥檚 leading ICT players to demonstrate their commitment to helping these organizations in their race to reinvent."
"Worldwide spending on the Internet of Things (IoT) is forecast to pass the $1.0 trillion mark in 2022, reaching $1.1 trillion in 2023. A new update to the International Data Corporation (IDC) Worldwide Semiannual Internet of Things Spending Guide shows the compound annual growth rate (CAGR) for IoT spending over the 2019-2023 forecast period will be 12.6%.

鈥淪pending on IoT deployments continues with good momentum and is expected to be $726 billion worldwide this year,鈥?said Carrie MacGillivray, group vice president, Internet of Things, 5G, and Mobility at IDC. 鈥淲hile organizations are investing in hardware, software, and services to support their IoT initiatives, their next challenge is finding solutions that help them to manage, process, and analyze the data being generated from all these connected things.鈥?
The three commercial industries that will spend the most on IoT solutions throughout the forecast are discrete manufacturing, process manufacturing, and transportation. Together, these three industries will account for nearly a third of worldwide spend total in 2023. The primary IoT use case for the two manufacturing industries will be manufacturing operations while transportation industry spending will largely go toward freight monitoring.

The consumer market will be the second largest source of IoT spending in 2019, led by smart home and connected vehicle use cases. With the fastest five-year growth rate across all industries (16.8% CAGR), the consumer market is forecast to overtake discrete manufacturing to become the largest source of IoT spending by 2023.

IoT services will be the largest technology category through the end of the forecast after overtaking hardware spending this year. Together, these two categories account for roughly two thirds of all IoT spending. Services spending goes toward traditional IT and installation services as well as ongoing services such as content as a service. Hardware spending is dominated by module/sensor purchases. Software will be the fastest growing technology category with a five-year CAGR of 15.3% with a focus on application and analytics software purchases.

Two additional trends within the IoT software category include the dominance of vertical industry IoT platforms and the rise of cloud deployments for IoT software. More than three quarters of all spending on IoT platform software 鈥?middleware that provides the device management, connectivity management, data management, visualization, and applications enablement for connecting IoT endpoints 鈥?will go toward software packages that integrate and support devices, applications, data schemas, and standards of a single industry. And firms are increasingly deploying their IoT software, including applications, analytics software, and IoT platforms, to the cloud. By the end of the forecast, nearly one third of IoT software spending will go toward public cloud deployments, compared to less than 20% spent on cloud deployments in 2018.

鈥淭he new Deployment Type segmentation in the IoT Spending Guide draws sharp lines that identify opportunities for software growth via public cloud services. Segmented at the deepest level, clients can now prioritize strategy planning at the region/country, industry, and use case levels,鈥?said Marcus Torchia, research director, Customer Insights & Analysis.

The United States and China will account for roughly half of all IoT spending throughout the forecast, followed by Western Europe and Asia/Pacific (excluding Japan and China). The regions that will see the fastest IoT spending growth are Latin America and the Middle East and Africa with CAGRs of 23.1% and 19.5% respectively.

The Worldwide Semiannual Internet of Things Spending Guide forecasts IoT spending for 14 technology categories and 59 named use cases across 20 industries in nine regions and 53 countries. Unlike any other research in the industry, the comprehensive spending guide was designed to help vendors clearly understand the industry-specific opportunity for IoT technologies today."
"Finding purchases or transactions on your bank statements that you can鈥檛 explain? Receiving credit cards or statements for accounts that you never applied for? Denied credit for a purchase, even though your credit record is clear? Chances are that you鈥檝e become one of a growing number of South Africans who have become victims of identity theft 鈥?and you need to act quickly to limit the damage, warns TransUnion senior director of the consumer business Garnet Jensen.

Jensen says identity theft is rife in South Africa, with nearly half of South African consumers having either fallen victim to identity theft, or knowing someone who has, according to TransUnion research.

The problem with identity theft is that victims typically only find out about the theft months later 鈥?by which time, someone can easily have obtained false lines of credit and racked up significant debt in their name.

鈥淕enerally, thieves will use the victim鈥檚 identity to purchase products and services on credit, particularly for high-end goods like electronics and luxury items,鈥?said Jensen. 鈥淚n the worst-case scenario, thieves can use your ID to apply for large value credit purchases such as vehicle finance or even commit a crime using your identity.鈥?
Popular targets for fraudsters include retail accounts, mobile phone contracts and bank accounts, but ID thieves have also been known to intercept employment application or credit applications and use those documents to steal identities.

If you suspect that someone has stolen your identity, there are several things you need to do.

Report the theft. Immediately report the identity theft to the SAPS, and the company, bank or financial institution where the fraud occurred. For insurance fraud, contact your insurance company, and let them know that your identity has been stolen. Also make contact with the South African Fraud Prevention Services (SAFPS) to register as a victim of identity theft.

Freeze your accounts. Make sure you close your existing bank accounts and the bank accounts opened by the thief. Get new accounts and PINs.

Protect your identity. Change your login and passwords for all of your online accounts 鈥?not just the affected ones. In fact, one of the best identity protection habits you can have is to change your email and online passwords on a regular basis. Be wary of emails and offers from unknown senders: 鈥淵ou don鈥檛 suddenly have a billionaire uncle overseas who has been searching for you for years and has finally found your email address,鈥?says Jensen.

Monitor Your Identity. Check your credit report regularly for any signs that someone might have stolen your identity. You can review your report for signs of suspicious activity, such as accounts that you don鈥檛 recognise or credit checks from companies with which you鈥檝e never done business.

鈥淩eclaiming your identity and cleaning up your record is a long and arduous process,鈥?says Jensen. 鈥淚t鈥檚 important for you to maintain the security of your information and manage the recovery process if your information is compromised. Early detection, using tracking products by credit bureaus, can limit the damage to your finances and credit record, giving you a better chance of reclaiming your identity.鈥?
You have access to a free credit report once every 12 months. To find out if you have been a victim of identity theft, visit https://www.transunion.co.za/assistance/free-credit-report for a free copy of your credit report."
"US CEO of the year, VMware's Pat Gelsinger, with Gadget editor-in-chief Arthur Goldstuck

The employment website Glassdoor has named Pat Gelsinger, CEO of VMware, the best CEO among US large companies in its annual survey of Top CEOs.

Gelsinger received an astonishing 99% approval rating and jumped 77 positions compared to last year, to reach the top of the rankings for the first time in his career. His success was attributed, in part, to investing in company culture and keeping innovation front of mind. VMware has 24,000 employees globally.

Gelsinger, along with other VMware executives, has made himself available to Gadget regularly, being interviewed by editor-in-chief Arthur Goldstuck at both the Mobile World Congress and VMworld in Barcelona in recent years.

Gelsinger has been CEO of VMware since September 2012. Before that, he was the first chief technology officer at Intel and, more recently, president and chief operating officer of EMC Information Infrastructure Products at EMC,

He said of the latest accolade: 鈥淔ostering an innovative company culture is paramount to us at VMware, especially now as we enter our next phase of growth. Ours is one ofthose rare work environments where our people understand they have an opportunity to transform the impossible into the essential.

鈥淎t VMware, we strive to innovate in everything we do, and we seek candidates who share our passion and excitement for solving the most difficult problems for our customers and want to drive the future of technology.鈥?
* Read the Glassdoor interview with Pat Gelsinger here: https://www.glassdoor.com/blog/vmware/"
"Google has opened the Google News Initiative (GNI) Innovation Challenge to submissions in the Middle East, Africa and Turkey.

The GNI Innovation Challenge is accepting proposals for projects from news organisations of every size to address increasing engagement with readers and/or exploring new business models in any form such as subscriptions, membership programs, and so on. Traditional publishers, news startups and associations that aim to build innovative digital media projects are all eligible to apply.

A panel will evaluate the submissions and fund selected projects up to $150k, with funding for up to 70 percent of the total project cost. The funding will be reviewed against several criteria, including a 鈥渟haring component鈥?鈥?for example, a project proposal can include publishing findings or holding a public seminar to encourage applicants to share the knowledge and learnings to others.

Applicants can make project submissions from now until Monday, September 2 at 23:59 GMT. More information on eligibility, rules and criteria, and funding will be published on the GNI website.

For more information, applicants may reach out directly to the GNI Project team, by emailing meagnichallenge@google.com.

The GNI Project Team will also be holding an online town hall webinar session to give further information and to answer questions. This will take place on Wednesday, July 3rd at 10 AM GMT (11 AM London time).

Last year, Google announced the Google News Initiative (GNI), the global umbrella that pulls together everything Google does to help news players in their transition to a digital future. The Google News Initiative is Google鈥檚 effort to help news players in their transition to a digital future, focusing on three pillars: First, elevating and strengthening quality journalism, second, evolving business models to drive sustainable growth and third, empowering news organisations through technological innovation. Over the last two years Google has trained more than 4000 journalists across Kenya, Nigeria and South Africa."
"Sibusiso Ngubelanga, 26, first applied to study at The Animation School in 2014 but couldn鈥檛 afford the tuition. The Khayelitsha resident attended every open day for the five years since then, to the point that some of The Animation School staff assumed he was a student there.

This month, thanks to a bursary from Triggerfish, Africa鈥檚 leading animation company, that dream finally became a reality: Sibusiso is now enrolled at the Cape Town campus of The Animation School, named one of the world鈥檚 top 100 animation schools by Animation Career Review for 2018.

Triggerfish is sponsoring Sibusiso and fellow first year student Zaid Neethling (19, from Strandfontein), as well as second-year student Dawood Salie (19, from Mitchell鈥檚 Plain), who also received a bursary in 2018. The bursaries cover the full tuition fees for the year, thanks to funding from Triggerfish and Animate Africa, a US-based non-profit organisation dedicated to supporting Africa鈥檚 youth through animation skills development and training.

The Animation School principal Nuno Martins says these bursaries are important because of the shortage of funding opportunities for students at private animation schools. This year, he estimates there were over 50 students who applied but were unable to secure the necessary funding.

鈥淭alent is universal; opportunity is not,鈥?says Triggerfish CEO Stuart Forrest. 鈥淲e want to start changing that, because we need diverse teams to do justice to our continent鈥檚 diverse stories.鈥?
Forrest pointed out that all three recipients are examples of how it takes a village to create an animator.

Salie is an alumnus of Draw for Life, an initiative offered by Sparks Flew Development Studio and PASCAP Trust and supported by Animation SA, The Animation School, and Triggerfish. Draw for Life introduces talented learners from disadvantaged backgrounds to South Africa鈥檚 booming animation industry and mentors them through a three-month series of classes covering the foundations of drawing for animation. Salie went on to complete a short course at Digital Canvas Academy, offered pro bono to Draw for Life alumni. From there, Salie was invited to take part in Triggerfish鈥檚 hot desk programme, where he experienced first-hand what goes into creating the BBC Christmas specials that Triggerfish animates in collaboration with Magic Light Pictures, like the Oscar-nominated Revolting Rhymes.

Ngubelanga and Neethling are both graduates of False Bay College鈥檚 2D animation course, funded by MICT Seta and lectured by Cate Wood Hunter and Riaan Theron. The False Bay College course provides an ideal bridging course for learners who were not able to study art formally at school. This allows learners to build their drawing as well as digital skills and put together a competitive portfolio for application to attend the likes of The Animation School.

Ngubelanga and Neethling also both interned on Jabu鈥檚 Jungle, a ground-breaking children鈥檚 animation produced by Pixcomm, first in Masiphumelele township and now in Muizenberg, which provides training and internships for young animators from the community, and has been sold to India. China and America, among other territories. Ngubelanga and Neethling also interned on Yolanda Keabetswe Mogatusi鈥檚 Rapulani and Rapunzel.

鈥淚t鈥檚 great to see the way the industry is coming together to create opportunities and mentor new talent,鈥?says Forrest.

While many parents are sceptical about 鈥榠Popeye鈥?as a career, animation is currently a scarce skill 鈥?not just in South Africa but globally. 鈥淔inding animators who are ready for our scale of projects is a real challenge,鈥?says Forrest. 鈥淚f we had more animators, we could take on a lot more work.鈥?
Martins agrees, adding that 85% of graduates from the last two years at The Animation School found work.

For example, Sinenhlanhla Sanelisiwe Shozi received a third-year bursary to The Animation School in 2018 and was immediately snapped up afterwards by Triggerfish, where she鈥檚 now part of the layout department on their third feature film, Seal Team 鈥?their follow up to two of the top five highest-grossing South African films of all time, Adventures in Zambezia and Khumba.

These bursaries are just one of a number of recent Triggerfish initiatives aimed at growing and diversifying the animation industry in Africa, from the pan-African Story Lab, which was supported by The Walt Disney Company and The Department of Trade and Industry, to Triggerfish Academy, an online introduction to animation in partnership with The Goethe-institut and The German Federal Ministry for Economic Development and Cooperation."
"The 40th Durban International Film Festival (DIFF), hosted by the University of KwaZulu-Natal鈥檚 Centre for Creative Arts, in co-operation with Berlinale Talents, has announced that the 12th edition of Talents Durban 鈥?in partnership with Durban FilmMart (DFM) 鈥?will take place from 18 to 22 July 2019.

The exciting partnership with DFM, Africa鈥檚 leading film finance and co-production market, aims to raise the visibility of Talents Durban projects, create networking opportunities with potential co-producers, and facilitate funding opportunities for promising projects.

Talents Durban is open to African screenwriters and directors, with animation, fiction, documentary or hybrid projects in development. The five-day event consists of workshops, discussions, screenings, and programmes for specific disciplines. The initiative also includes Talent Press, a co-operation with FIPRESCI and the Goethe-institut, which will once again host mentorship for emerging film critics.

Talent Labs

Storytelling Lab selects three features and three short films currently in development. The stories are given advanced consultation and mentoring by three script editors, as well as participating in scriptwriting workshops.

selects three features and three short films currently in development. The stories are given advanced consultation and mentoring by three script editors, as well as participating in scriptwriting workshops. Doc Lab is a hands-on training programme in which three Talents Durban participants who submitted documentary projects are given expert mentorship. The participants then pitch their projects at the Durban FilmMart鈥檚 African Pitching Forum.

is a hands-on training programme in which three Talents Durban participants who submitted documentary projects are given expert mentorship. The participants then pitch their projects at the Durban FilmMart鈥檚 African Pitching Forum. Animation Lab is open to screenwriters and animation directors with animation projects. The lab will focus on character development, visual development, and the business of animation in Africa.

is open to screenwriters and animation directors with animation projects. The lab will focus on character development, visual development, and the business of animation in Africa. Talent Press offers mentorship for three emerging African film critics and journalist. Participants will cover the 40th Durban International Film Festival. FIPRESCI is an organization of film critics and films journalists established for the promotion and development of film culture.

As well as focused mentorships, industry-specific expert master classes, workshops, and a creative platform for self-expression and networking, Talents Durban will also cover participants鈥?accommodation, airfare, and festival accreditation. Participants will have direct access to DIFF screenings, DFM masterclasses, networking sessions, and other activities with experts and industry players from around the world.

2019 Focus and Theme

This year鈥檚 Talents Durban theme 鈥楢uthenticity鈥?is inspired by the contemporary moment in African cinema. Following a global renaissance of African cinema and television content, the demand for stories from the continent is rising. African storytellers and audiences seeking to connect with African cinema are grappling with the question of what is authentic African cinema. For filmmakers, this question has a far more inward dimension 鈥?before the auteur can offer the answer to this question they have to ask the question of themselves 鈥?what is authentic to me? With the four-day programme we are looking for storytellers who embody the future of what it means to have an 鈥榓uthentic voice鈥?鈥?to join this pertinent conversation.

Selection process

Talents Durban will invite 18 Talents, carefully selected by a panel of industry experts. Prospective Talents should complete the application form online, provided they have a recognised portfolio of previous work and a project in progress. Selected projects will be announced on 16 May 2019.

Applications are now open online. Deadline is 30 April 2019.

For more information contact Menzi Mhlongo, +27 (0) 31 260 2506 or talentsdurban@gmail.com"
"SCREEN AFRICA EXCLUSIVE:

The 2019 Design Indaba was a joyous celebration of how sustainable design can create meaningful change in the world and solve real-world problems at their source. Changing how the rest of the world views Africa was, again, a strong narrative from the storytellers present at the event: the filmmakers and Afrofuturists.

A key theme was how to get Africans around the continent to view themselves as people of joy, creativity, imagination 鈥?and as deserving of heroes. Africa鈥檚 story has, for far too long, only been one of pain and suffering; and while those stories need to be told, it is also important to balance that aspect with joy, said award-winning Kenyan filmmaker, Wanuri Kahiu.

Kahiu is one of a new generation of African storytellers who are changing the narrative about the continent. She specifically co-founded Afrobubblegum, a media company that 鈥渟upports, creates and commissions fun, fierce and frivolous African art.鈥?
Creative director and artist, Kordae Jatafa Henry, along with Kahiu, both owned the stage at #DesignIndaba2019, held at the Artscape in Cape Town between 27 February and 1 March 2019, when they talked about breaking the boundaries of traditional filmmaking and envisioned an Afrofuturist Africa.

Henry, who identifies as Jamaican-British-American, grew up immersed in the counter-culture and today explores the ideas that infiltrate technology and culture in his music-films, which are described as 鈥渁 remix of Afrofuturism and cyberpunk aesthetics.鈥?His background is actually in architecture, as well as film, but he collaborates with artists across multiple industries. He intends to give Africa鈥檚 past, present and future a 鈥渘ew lens鈥?through which to view and interpret itself.

In his film, Earth Mother, Sky Father: 2030, Henry offers up an Afrofuturistic utopia in this experimental work that presents a different narrative 鈥?one where Africa鈥檚 mineral wealth remains on the continent and is used to aid its own people and is treasured as part of their culture. He tells the story though a mix of interpretive dance and Afrocentric visuals.

Kahiu, in turn, believes strongly that we need hope and frivolity in Africa 鈥?and when she refused to change the 鈥渉opeful ending鈥?to her film Rafiki (about same-sex relationships) to one of 鈥渞emorse鈥? it was banned in Kenya. She has gone to the courts to overturn that ban.

She believes Africans need to see themselves as people of radical hope, as this is the legacy of their history and rich culture. Her latest film, Pumzi, is a sci-fi which advocates for nature, and while Kahiu was creating the film, she thought it would be an incredibly powerful story to tell of Africans as guardians of nature, with African women at the forefront of this battle.

Kahiu was named a TED Fellow in 2017 and a World Economic Forum Cultural Leader in 2018. She has written and directed six films to date. In 2008, she completed her first feature film, From A Whisper, based on real-life events surrounding the twin bombings of US Embassies in Nairobi and Dar es Salaam in 1998. The film was honoured at the Africa Movie Academy Awards, including winning the Best Director and Best Picture prizes, and it also picked up the Golden Dhow Award at the Zanzibar International Film Festival as well as Best Film at the Kalasha Awards (presented by the Kenya Film Commission). Shortly after, she completed a documentary about the life of Nobel Peace Prize Laureate Wangari Maathai, entitled For Our Land (2009), for M-Net鈥檚 Great Africans series.

Her short science fiction film, the original version of Pumzi (2009), was partially funded by Focus Features, the Goethe-institut and the Changa Moto Fund in Kenya, and screened at Sundance in 2010. Pumzi won Best Short at the Cannes Independent Film Festival in May 2010, and took Silver at the Carthage Film Festival in 2010.

Fierce and fun

Kahiu spoke at length before the Design Indaba this year about changing the storytelling narrative in Africa to include joyful and hopeful stories. 鈥淩afiki was really just an ode to love. I really wanted to tell a love story because, growing up, I had never seen images of us as Africans in love. Europeans were falling in love, Americans were falling in love, everyone else was falling in love, but Africans were not. I really wanted to add our experiences as Africans] of being in love, to cinema.

鈥淚 started to investigate stories from Africa about joy, because I believe that joy and hope are part of our culture, that joy is part of our tradition and part of who we are.鈥?
As she looked at modern Africa and even further back, into the myths of the past, she realised that there were more stories of joy in African culture, than of remorse.

Her motivation in making films that have a hopeful and joyful message is to ensure that audience members view people of colour in their own neighbourhoods as people of 鈥渏oyful radiance.鈥?It is what drives her continuous study of African mythology, which also contains wondrous tales of African mermaids and dragons.

鈥淭o be able to glorify the ideas of these mythical beasts in Africa, prove more than the ideas of Africa鈥檚 suffering and pain, but rather the ideas of our exuberance and creativity,鈥?Kahiu said.

Investigating myths

Both Kahiu and Henry spoke about the importance of myths in Africa in pointing to a different history of the continent, as well as a reimagined future. They believe past legends and myths can help remind Africans that they have a future more joyous than the recent past, where stories have been more painful and desperate than hopeful.

鈥淏lack Panther cannot be the only example [of a story that celebrates African superheroes]. There are stories of joy to be told [in Africa] and they need to be told by us,鈥?Kahiu reiterated.

Henry questions the lens we use to imagine tomorrow. He believes we should all be incorporating rituals and culture as essential parts of storytelling in the future. He told a story of how his father brought home old technology and transformed it into sculptures.

鈥淢y father created meaning in the things he was making.鈥?This is the crux of what he believes: that we need to look beyond the functionality of our new technological world and investigate the purpose of that technology.

He explained that early on he realised that our modern devices have a deeper meaning. For example, most people are unaware of how these devices are manufactured, a process which often brings suffering to those who mine the essential minerals used in much of today鈥檚 technology 鈥?with much of these resources coming from Africa.

鈥淚鈥檓 interested in the invisible. I want to figure out how to bring those stories to life. What if we could tell a new story of faith and hope of the technology of tomorrow?鈥?
This is the essential theme of Henry鈥檚 futuristic film, Earth Mother, Sky Father: 2030, where he imagines that a future Africa will have control of its own wealth and a new energy, guided by spirits will watch over the land.

Like Kahiu, Henry is also using science fiction, Afrofuturism and black cinema to present 鈥渂lack bodies in future spaces鈥?and to reimagine Africans as superheroes.

鈥淰ision is only an idea until we can build futures that can evolve,鈥?he concluded."
South Africans are deeply uncertain about what the future holds. Most fear it won鈥檛 be good. But even if the country does pull out of its death spiral and dodges the most apocalyptic predictions, ...
"Nickelodeon and The Pantone Color Institute have partnered to create official SpongeBob Yellow and Patrick Star Pink colors in commemoration of the 20th Anniversary of SpongeBob SquarePants, one of the most iconic TV series and characters ever created. Nickelodeon is celebrating 20 years of SpongeBob SquarePants with the 鈥淏est Year Ever鈥濃€攁 tribute to the number-one kids鈥?animated series on TV that has generated a universe of beloved characters, pop culture catchphrases and memes, theatrical releases, consumer products, a Tony award-winning Broadway musical and a global fan base.

鈥淔or two decades, SpongeBob SquarePants has inspired millions of people,鈥?said Charlotte Castillo, Senior Vice President, Franchise Planning, Viacom Nickelodeon Consumer Products. 鈥淔rom our partnership with the Pantone Color Institute to our collaborations with artists around the world 鈥?we鈥檙e commemorating SpongeBob鈥檚 20th Anniversary by celebrating his optimism, imagination and creativity.鈥?
鈥淲e were very honored to partner with Nickelodeon on the creation of colors for these two globally iconic characters. Inspired by SpongeBob鈥檚 enthusiasm, playfulness and fun-loving nature, the new SpongeBob Yellow we created is a luminous golden hue that reflects the energy of the sun, radiating joy and happiness, and sparking imagination,鈥?expressed Laurie Pressman, Vice-President-Pantone Color Institute. 鈥淧atrick Star Pink, a warm and inviting coral pink is the perfect companion color to SpongeBob Yellow. Spirited and affable, a light hearted pink hue is ideally suited to the fun and laughter of being with your best friend.鈥?
In celebration of the SpongeBob Yellow launch, Nickelodeon is asking fans to show their love of SpongeBob by wearing their #SpongeBobYellow on Tuesday, June 4 and post their looks to @SpongeBob on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram.

In addition to the Pantone Color Institute partnership, Nickelodeon also collaborated with artists around the world to create unique interpretations of SpongeBob.

Brazilian-born, Miami-based international pop artist Romero Britto reimagined SpongeBob in his trademark vibrant, bold and colorful patterns. Britto creates art to reflect his optimistic view of the world around him, and his iconic style has been described in the media as exuding 鈥渨armth, optimism and love鈥? Britto鈥檚 SpongeBob mixed-media art installation will be exhibited at a pop-up SpongeBob experience in Los Angeles later in the year; and Viacom Nickelodeon Consumer Products (VNCP) is in discussions with partners to translate his original SpongeBob creation to product.

鈥淚t is a huge honor for me to create an art piece that celebrates such a beautiful anniversary as the iconic SpongeBob,鈥?said Britto. 鈥淗e is a character loved by millions of children and families, including my own. My son grew up watching SpongeBob, and so this piece is such a special one that brings me happiness. I feel privileged and thankful to be a part of this partnership that can now be enjoyed by everyone around the world.鈥?
In addition to Britto, UK-born artist, Jon Burgerman, known as the purveyor of doodles, created 50 SpongeBob pieces in his unique 鈥榙oodle鈥?art style.

Burgerman added: 鈥淚 love the whole world of SpongeBob, from the characters, the settings and most of all the humour (and heart) of the show. Although SpongeBob is a design classic, it鈥檚 the characters and their relatable personalities that have kept us entertained over so many years. Stephen Hillenburg created a classic, and it鈥檚 an honour to be part of this collaboration.鈥?
In Asia, Secret Fresh鈥揳 collective of Filipino artists representing a variety of mediums, including graffiti, comics, film, animation, music, architecture, sculpture, fine art and design鈥?also collaborated with Nickelodeon on the project. Secret Fresh鈥檚 artists used SpongeBob as inspiration for limited-edition art, toys and prints.

Artists include Christian Tamondong and Ronald Ventura alongside 20 other artists whose expressions of SpongeBob ranged from canvas paintings to porcelain and polystone figurines. The pieces will be showcased at an upcoming Secret Fresh gallery exhibition, and VNCP are in discussions with retailers to bring the creations to stores across Asia.

SpongeBob鈥檚 20th Anniversary also features the Friday, July 12, premiere of 鈥淪pongeBob鈥檚 Big Birthday Blowout,鈥?an original mixed live-action and animated special, and leads up to the Paramount Pictures and Nickelodeon Movies theatrical, 鈥淭he SpongeBob Movie: It鈥檚 a Wonderful Sponge,鈥?opening in May 2020."
"Cybersecurity leader Trend Micro Incorporated has announced highly optimised security solutions for Microsoft Azure workloads for customers in sub-Saharan Africa.

The Trend Micro Deep Security suite takes into consideration that a customer needs to approach cloud security differently than one would traditional security. As a result, it is fully optimised for Microsoft Azure. The suite ensures that a customer can tap into a solution that provides flexible, scalable protection of operating systems, applications, and data without slowing you down.

鈥淢icrosoft is an important partner to Trend Micro and as a result we have built a series of technologies that support their position in the cloud,鈥?says Indi Siriniwasa, vice president at Trend Micro Sub-Saharan Africa. 鈥淥ur security solutions are uniquely optimised for Microsoft Azure and complement Microsoft Azure Security Centre so customers across the world continue to turn to Trend Micro to help better secure their Azure real estate. With Microsoft Azure now available from new cloud regions in South Africa, customers can rest assured that we support the use of Microsoft to streamline provisioning of security for Windows virtual machines and SharePoint workloads.

鈥淭his will help customers to ensure that their security follows them from their physical environment to the cloud and back again, customers can automate security with Microsoft PowerShell scripting to streamline provisioning of security for Windows virtual machines and SharePoint workloads plus many other orchestration tools for Azure, including Chef, Puppet, and RightScale, we can also help clients to better automate security control deployments.鈥?
With Deep Security for Azure, businesses can detect and protect against intrusions as well as protect their business against serious vulnerabilities with intrusion detection and prevention (IDS/IPS). The solution will also help uncover suspicious changes to a system and immediately highlight and alert the business to these activities 鈥?without security admins having to manually sort through logs.

It also has the ability to keep malware off of workloads by using predictive machine learning mechanisms to detect unknown threats and prevalent attacks, so that a user can identify and then remove malware and blacklist domains known to be command-and-control (C&C) servers. Customers can also stop applications attached with IPS rules that block XSS or SQL attacks and other serious vulnerabilities until systems can be patched, as well as increase application visibility and control.

A particularly relevant feature within the South African context is that Deep Security is able to speed up a client鈥檚 route to PCI DSS compliance. The Deep Security solution allows a client to meet multiple PCI requirements with a single product, including intrusion detection and prevention, file integrity monitoring, and log inspection.

鈥淭rend Micro鈥檚 integration with Microsoft Azure reduces the dependence on multiple point security tools, helping you to identify and address security and configuration issues quickly,鈥?says Adwait Joshi, director, Azure Product Marketing at Microsoft Corp.

Trend Micro provided the following information:

Trend Micro鈥檚 Deep Security currently secures more servers globally than any other solution and specialises in protection for cloud and virtualised workload. It acts as part of the Trend Micro Hybrid Cloud Security solution, powered by XGen and provides comprehensive, flexible security for Azure workloads in a single product, so you can build new applications or move existing resources to the cloud with confidence.

Deep Security protects workloads by:

Defending against network threats with intrusion detection and prevention (IDS/IPS)

Immediately protecting against vulnerabilities like Shellshock and Heartbleed

Keeping malware off Windows and Linux workloads

Alerting when unplanned or suspicious changes are made to systems

Stopping SQL injection and XSS attacks on applications

Gaining visibility and control of elastic workloads with application control that fits DevOps

Local Trend Micro customers can also turn to the company鈥檚 Trend Micro Cloud App Security which is directly integrated into Office 365 via APIs. This includes advanced email protection, as well as compliance on third-party cloud file sharing services such as: Box, Dropbox, Google Drive, SharePoint Online, and OneDrive for Business."
"South African businesses have a new platform to recruit skilled graduates, interns, and apprentices in a simple, low-cost format. The system cut its teeth recruiting women who needed skilled employment with the flexibility demanded of managing a family.

RecruitAGraduate.co.za is a new online recruitment platform from the award-winning creator of RecruitMyMom.co.za. The new platform aims to pair young graduates, interns, and apprentices who have graduated from reputable higher learning institutions in the past five years, or those who need work experience to complete their qualifications, with businesses and entrepreneurs looking for the energy and skills that young recruits can offer.

Recruitagraduate.co.za completed a successful trial phase in March 2019 and opened its doors for job listings and professional recruitment in April.

鈥淢odern recruitment practices and mega online job portals are valuable tools for mainstream job placements, but its brute force approach can be inefficient for smaller businesses and first-time job seekers,鈥?says Phillipa Geard, founder of RecruitAGraduate.

It is in this fertile space that RecruitAGraduate will offer its range of services. On the one hand it will assist businesses which want to employ young talent but cannot afford expensive, graduate recruitment campaigns, and which equally cannot risk a wrong placement.

On the other hand, it will exclusively help new academic and vocational graduates who need to find meaningful work and position themselves for a successful career amid the noise and seemingly insurmountable obstacles they face in the current South African job market.

RecruitAGraduate will use a similar model to that of its sister platform, RecruitMyMom.

RecruitMyMom focuses on skilled, flexible and part-time placements for women wanting to integrate their careers and family commitments. This platform was created by Geard in 2012 and won her the title of Job Creator of the Year at the 2018 Entrepreneur of the Year Awards.

Geard said: 鈥淎t RecruitAGraduate, prospective employers can choose from a self-service option, with a small listing fee, or an affordable, professional recruitment service, where one of our team members will help them find and place the right candidate. For the latter, payment is only made when we make a successful placement, and we offer a three-month warranty.

鈥淎t the same time, we help graduates by exclusively focusing on them. Our platform is geared to present graduates, interns and apprentices in the best possible light through our online help and CV template service.鈥?
By offering an easy-to-use platform with low fees and a targeted approach, RecruitAGraduate will help forward-thinking businesses invest in hiring graduates, interns, and apprentices, addressing one of the challenges of youth unemployment in South Africa, which is the highest in the world. Graduate youth employment integrates with existing governmental tax and B-BBEE incentives and dovetails with foundational programmes such as Youth Employment Services (YES)"
"If Africa were to follow China鈥檚 example and broadly invest in cinema infrastructure, it could achieve annual box office revenues of $1.5 to $2 billion; with Nigeria and South Africa accounting for as much as $500 million. This is one of the main findings of the 2018 Framing the Shot: Key Trends In African Film report, which was conducted by founder of 234 Media, Dayo Ogunyemi, in partnership with the Goethe-institut and with support from the German Federal Foreign Office. Launched at the Durban International Film Festival (DIFF) 2018, the study aims to fill the substantial gap in information and analysis about the fast-changing film industry in sub-Saharan Africa.

Framing the Shot particularly recommends improving access to finance, incubating film-specific business skills and capacity and developing effective distribution. Says the report鈥檚 author, Ogunyemi: 鈥淔or too long, Africa鈥檚 film industry has been the subject of many anecdotes and much supposition; the absence of credible, comprehensive data has led to wasted resources and lost opportunities which the continent can scarcely afford [鈥 If African countries do not plan, invest and collaborate today, the trade deficit around content consumption will widen and the opportunity to shape the tastes and preferences of future generations of Africans will be lost.鈥?
The Framing the Shot report catalogues and analyses the major opportunities and challenges that Africa鈥檚 film industries face through four substantive parts:

A survey of African filmmakers and general analysis of the African film landscape

Country studies of Africa鈥檚 two largest film industries: Nigeria and South Africa

Case studies of three African films from development through completion; a comparison of the commercial performance of an African and a European film; as well as lessons drawn from the diaspora 鈥?specifically in the context of African-American film.

Conclusions on African film in the global industry context and recommendations on priority steps to address the main opportunities and challenges identified

Says Noemie Njangiru, Culture and Development coordinator at the Goethe-institut: 鈥淭here are two reasons behind our investment in reliable information about the continent鈥檚 film industries: Firstly, the sector has a huge potential to contribute to economic growth and create employment opportunities. Secondly, we believe that strong film industries and better conditions for pan-African collaborations can contribute to undoing stereotypes, particularly in the context of the Western gaze on 鈥楢frica鈥?鈥?
Taking a closer look at the South African film industry, the report suggests extending the current 鈥済enerous incentive system that is primarily centered on production [鈥 to the post-completion value-chain 鈥?sales, marketing and distribution.鈥?The study continues: 鈥淔or filmmakers and audiences that continue to endure the historical disadvantages meted out under apartheid, more must be done. Cinema infrastructure must be extended to under-served townships in order to unlock latent spending power on film. One of the most promising ways in which South Africa can do this is to support entrepreneurs and SMEs to close the gaps in distribution capacity and the deficits in exhibition infrastructure in townships and rural areas.鈥?
Meet Dayo Ogunyemi at DIFF and DFM

Distribution: Debunking the Myths 鈥?Understanding the Exploitation Value Chain"
"It鈥檚 been a bumper year for this year鈥檚 Durban FilmMart (DFM), the industry development programme of the eThekwini Municipality鈥檚 Durban Film Office (DFO) and Durban International Film Festival (DIFF), which ended with an awards ceremony at the Southern Sun Maharani Hotel in Durban, South Africa, on Monday, 23 July.

Speaking at the DFM awards ceremony, Toni Monty, head of the DFO and the Durban FilmMart, said, 鈥淎s one of the most important, film industry events and film finance platforms on the continent, we are really pleased that we have grown the DFM substantially this year with 877 delegates attending. We had over 40 countries participating this year, of which 19 were from Africa. A total number of 52 projects were pitched to potential partners, financiers, filmmakers, producers, distributors and agents during countless meetings.鈥?
Key to the value that the Durban FilmMart provides filmmakers are the many meetings and networking sessions that are held between delegates over the four days.

鈥淭he important work we do to enable filmmakers, would not be possible without our partners and sponsors,鈥?said Monty, 鈥淎nd we would like to thank our partner markets, development organisations and funding bodies with deep gratitude.鈥?
鈥淭he work we do at this mart supports the DIFF and DFO鈥檚 vision to dynamically grow the industry and bring African cinema to its own people and to global platforms.鈥?
Eighteen official DFM film projects in development were presented at the Finance Forum through the sponsorship of the Industrial Development Corporation and the National Film and Video Foundation.

Supported by Berlinale Talents, the Goethe-institut and the German Embassy and in cooperation with Fipresci, Durban Talents was able to host 16 young filmmakers, and three Talents Press.

鈥淲e hosted a number of scriptwriters鈥?labs including Jumpstart which is supported by Produire au Sud, France and the Realness Script Writing Residency. Hot Docs Canada, mentored 11 documentary projects in development and six CineFam Africa television series projects were mentored by Caribbean Tales, Canada.鈥?
鈥淲e recognise the important role that the eThekwini Municipality, the principal funder of the DFM plays in its success,鈥?continued Monty. 鈥淭he city鈥檚 involvement actively enables the economic growth of the industry, and we thank them for this.鈥?
The DFM hosted a number of delegations this year including the in-bound delegation through the Department of Trade and Industry, the BRICS Film Festival delegation through the Department of Arts and Culture. Special thanks must go to the Canadian High Commission and US Embassy and the French Institute (IFAS), NFVF and KZN Film Commission for their support in bringing in delegates.

The Awards/Grants:

The International Documentary Film Festival of Amsterdam (IDFA) awarded the most promising documentary project at the DFM, Cheese Girl (South Africa), produced by Batana Vundla, Marion Isaacs and directedby Milisuthando Bongela, with an opportunity to attend the IDFA Forum, one of the top gatherings for documentary filmmakers, producers, commissioning editors, funds, private financiers and other documentary filmmakers in Europe, in November.

The broadcast stream, Afridocs, that flights African and other international documentaries across 49 countries of sub-Saharan Africa on a weekly basis, gave a 鈧?500 award, funded by the Bertha Foundation, to Zinder, The Seeds of Violence (Niger), produced by Clara Vuillermoz, Ousmane Samassekou and directed by Aicha Macky.

The CineMart Award, sponsored by the co-production market of the International Film Festival Rotterdam, went to the fiction project, Nyanga/The Horn (Zimbabwe), produced by Sue-Ellen Chitunya, Brett Michael Innes and directoed by Brett Michael Innes. The project is given an opportunity to attend the Rotterdam Lab, a five-day training and networking event for producers from all over the world.

Produire au Sud of Festival des 3 Continents (Nantes) awarded the fiction film Porta-Retrato (Mozambique), produced by Aldino Languana, Osvaldo Lupini Bambamba and directed by Orlando Mabasso Jr., an opportunity to attend its developmental workshop programme, PAS, where they will be given tools, expertise, and opportunities to develop European networks.

Videovision Entertainment awarded the 鈥淏est South African Film Project鈥?to Snake (South Africa), produced by Paul Egan, Stanford Gibson and Mustapha Hendricks and directed by Meg Rickards. They receive a prize valued at R75 000, which guarantees its release once it is completed. The prize also includes marketing and distribution support from Videovision Entertainment.

Versfeld & Associates, publicity consultants awarded Nyanga/The Horn (Zimbabwe), produced by Sue-Ellen Chitunya, Brett Michael Innes and director by Brett Michael Innes, the development of a press kit.

S酶rfond awarded the project How to Steal a Country, produced by Rehad Desai and Zivia Desai and directed by Mark Kaplan, with an opportunity to pitch at the S酶rfond Pitching Forum in Oslo later this year.

CineFAM-Africa Incubator Accelerator Programme award to pitch at the Caribbean Tales Film Festival in Toronto, went to The Summit Club by Layla Swart

New awards this year include:

Hot Docs Blue Ice Award 鈥?a cash prize of 2000 Candian Dollars went to the documentary project The Master鈥檚 Plan, produced by Hanne Phlypo and directed by Yuri Ceuninck.

11 th Talents Durban 鈥淭alents Press鈥?Recognition Award went to Cornelia Glele.

Talents Durban 鈥淭alents Press鈥?Recognition Award went to Cornelia Glele. Durban FilmMart Award for the Durban Talents project selected as a project for DFM 2019 went to When Shadows Move by Aliki Saragas.

The DFM ended last night, but the Durban International Film Festival continues until 29 July. There is a free industry programmer 鈥?Isiphethu 鈥?happening opposite the Southern Sun Garden Court Marine Parade with seminars and workshops for the public and emerging filmmakers, as well as free screenings at various venues."
"Dear colleagues and students

It gives me great pleasure to announce that Ms Ujala Satgoor has been appointed as the new Executive Director: Libraries. She will take up the position from 1 January 2019.

Ms Satgoor brings with her years of experience in the higher education environment. She is currently the director of library services at Rhodes University, a position she has held since 2012. Prior to that, she was the deputy director of library services at the University of Pretoria (UP) from 2008 to 2012.

With a master鈥檚 degree in information technology and a postgraduate diploma in library and information science, she is more than suited for the position. However, it is her leadership ability that makes her the ideal candidate.

Her current leadership roles include being the chair of the Committee of Higher Education Libraries of South Africa (CHELSA), deputy chair of the South African National Library and Information Consortium (SANLiC), chair of the Library and Information Association of South Africa (LIASA) Professional Body Advisory Committee, and a member of the Council on Higher Education Reference Group: Library and Information Science. She is also the former president of LIASA (2012鈥?4) during which time she accepted the bid to host and co-chaired the National Committee for the World Library and Information Congress (WLIC) held in August 2015 in Cape Town.

Ms Satgoor believes that the greatest asset of an institution is its diversity and human capital, and that success depends on a work environment that values and develops its employees. As a leader she recognises the importance of staff development as a strategic imperative for institutional alignment and responsiveness.

Beyond academia she has served as a partner to the Mortenson Centre for International Library Programs, University of Illinois, and a consultant to various international and national organisations, including the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation鈥檚 Global Libraries project, the International Federation of Library Associations and Institutions鈥?Building Strong Library Associations (BSLA) programme, the African Library Associations and Institutions (AfLIA), the Bibliotheca Alexandrina, the World Library Partnership and the Goethe-institut.

Her research has focused on the South African library and information services landscape from both a historical and current perspective (post-1994), looking at the context within which libraries function, library governance, government funding for redress, library technologies, library and information services education and the professional association. She believes that libraries are important in meeting the goals of the national development agenda towards entrenching a strong democracy and an educated and informed nation.

Read Ms Satgoor鈥檚 abridged CV.

Led by Ms Satgoor and with the support of the libraries team, I am confident that UCT Libraries will continue to grow and have a positive impact not only on our students but also the greater community.

Sincerely

Professor Mamokgethi Phakeng

Vice-Chancellor

Read previous communications:"
"Lornaand Leonard Joseph and Denis Petersen are snapped with their minder Togo in about 1959. Photo: Bronwyn Anderson

Imagine being in your local museum, but the people represented on the walls don鈥檛 look like you.

In South Africa, for many of us, we don鈥檛 have to imagine it and a new exhibition that opened this week at the Durban Art Gallery adds its voice to the growing chorus of work correcting the error of representation.

Proclamation 73 explores memory, erasure and home by drawing on the family album as a source of history. In this way, the exhibition does the radical work of re-entering under-represented peoples into history.

Issued in 1951, Proclamation 73 was the law according to which Indian people were categorised as a subdivision of the coloured group. It was issued by the apartheid government under the Group Areas Act and forced removals followed.

Initiated by social researcher Zara Julius and curator Chandra Frank, the exhibition draws on photographs of weddings, beach days, ballroom dance contests and street portraits, which are exhibited alongside photographs of the aftermath of forced removals. The project aims to challenge static racial categories and to investigate how categories such as 鈥渃oloured鈥?and 鈥淚ndian鈥?were used as anti-black tools.

Desiree Henneberry (1969)

The project focuses on neighbourhoods in Durban North and Durban South that were designated for coloured and Indian people. Frank鈥檚 father is from Chatsworth and Julius鈥檚 mother鈥檚 family was initially in Cato Manor, which links them both closely to the exhibition.

Community album: One of the collected photographs is of Chatsworth homesin July 1964. Photo: Old Court House Museum

Speaking before its opening this week, Julius explains: 鈥淏oth of us were really interested in our family鈥檚 experiences around forced removals. For me, personally, I was interested in Durban experiences around colouredness, because, I think, when people talk about coloured identity, it鈥檚 quite situated in Cape Town and the Western Cape. People don鈥檛 really know the narrative around Durban coloured identity. I use the term 鈥榗oloured鈥?in inverted commas because it鈥檚 obviously a very contested term.鈥?
The project was interactive and the creators put out a call for family photographs of homes, gatherings and communities from before 1994. Although people were responsive, Julius says that getting them to scan their photographs proved difficult and the curators had to change their approach.

Joyce Williams and Anthony Solomons (1975)

鈥淒urban was difficult to activate. What I ended up doing was making house visits with my scanner and my computer.鈥?
One of the aims of the exhibition is to challenge notions about race and space in Durban.

鈥淭he idea around this term 鈥榗oloured鈥?is super-fixed in the South African population鈥檚 imagination. Imagine the experience between being from the Western Cape and being from KZN [KwaZulu-Natal] and then being from Gauteng. And that鈥檚 obviously got to do with the fact that the term 鈥榗oloured鈥?was a label placed on people with varying different cultural experiences and ethnic backgrounds. What was important for me was to have a more complicated conversation around this term 鈥榗oloured鈥?

Esther Moyce and her daughter Dulcie Moyce (1924)

鈥淣ot every coloured person speaks Afrikaans, for example. In Durban, the cultural proximity is way closer to Indian experiences. The other thing that was important was to think through how the term Indian moved from a national identity to a racial identity. It was only in 1951 that the term Indian became a racial identity.鈥?
The two histories, those of coloured people and Indian people, are often read independently, but the exhibition presents them together, intertwined but different.

鈥楳rs Green鈥?and children (date unknown)

What was the thinking behind this?

鈥淭o show, quite frankly, how absurd racial classification was and continues to be. People鈥檚 lived experiences are way murkier than we are led to believe. Some parts of one family would be classified in three different ways, you know? There are people who have some cousins classified Indian and other cousins classified coloured and then one uncle who managed to get himself classified as white,鈥?Julius says.

The exhibition is a greater community family album, which forms a collective memoryscape, as both a physical exhibition and a digital archive. Digital copies of the photographs will be donated to the KwaMuhle Museum so that there鈥檚 more content and visibility about the issue spread throughout the city.

Apart from addressing limited personal knowledge about ancestries, projects such as Proclamation 73 address erasure in historical narratives. In particular, South African recorded history has deliberately erased us and where we come from. If we don鈥檛 do this for ourselves, it simply won鈥檛 happen. Did Julius experience a similar emotional reaction to this process?

鈥淭otally. Going through the archives and trying to see what does exist, and then realising, 鈥榦h, nothing exists鈥? That is really shocking. And then what does exist is a collection of photographs of women, girls cleaning and sewing at an orphanage. It鈥檚 quite hectic that that becomes the narrative in Wentworth.鈥?
I return to thinking about the violence of forced removal. The story of having your family forcibly removed is one many can relate to. It鈥檚 one I have heard over countless Sunday lunches in my own home in Cape Town, and displacement under the Group Areas Act is a narrative that resonates with millions of people all over South Africa.

When the apartheid government issued Proclamation 73, the point was not only to separate white people from the rest of the population, they also wanted to create communities distinct from those of black people. This stratified form of racialised oppression was reflected by and continues to be reflected by the anti-black sentiments expressed in coloured and Indian communities.

鈥淚t鈥檚 so tricky, because, on the one hand, we鈥檙e trying to bring our communities in and trying to say, 鈥楬ey, we need to be more active in taking charge of our stories and our narratives鈥? So we鈥檙e trying to bring communities in without alienating people, but at the same time also trying to educate and push our communities to be better.

鈥淪o, yes, the exhibition does address anti-blackness. We speak to the gaps in the archives in the exhibition. We have kind of tackled it that way,鈥?says Julius.

The gaps in the archives is a phenomenon seen in many families. The older generation is often quick to point out their European great-great-grandparent, but have little know-ledge about their indigenous lineage.

Julius says: 鈥淎s an example, a lot of homes from my grandparents鈥?age would have photos of their white grandfather or father from the UK [United Kingdom] somewhere, but there would be no photograph of, say, his black partner. So the archive is always limited. We have to look into the gaps of the archive.

鈥淎n example would be my great-grandfather, a white man from Ireland, who came through and had several children with several different Zulu women. There鈥檚 a photograph of him, but no photograph of my great-grandmother. The question becomes: Why is there this missing link? It raises questions of anti-blackness and erasure of blackness.鈥?
Given the brutal effects of gentrification today, does Julius see any parallels between the forced removals of the Groups Area Act and what鈥檚 going on in places like Woodstock and Bo Kaap in Cape Town now?

鈥淥h, completely. I was thinking through the protest that happened like, two weeks ago, where citizens in Bo Kaap were trying to stop a crane from coming on to this site and they were met with a really insane amount of police brutality, considering it was, like, 20 aunties praying.

鈥淎nd I was thinking like the Bo Kaap somehow survived forced removal, and survived apartheid. But will it survive neocolonialism and white capitalism? There鈥檚 totally a link between forced removals and gentrification.

鈥淚 don鈥檛 know if you know about the concept of 鈥榟auntology鈥? where things from the past haunt the present. That鈥檚 kind of how I see the gentrification in Cape Town.鈥?
Proclamation 73 is a not-for-profit project in partnership with the Goethe-institut South Africa as part of the Goethe-institut Project Space. The exhibition will be on at the Durban Art Gallery until February 15"
"Driving through the streets of Hillbrow means navigating narrow streets made that way by the Rea Vaya, traffic that moves in a hectic manner, and an area that is defined by rules which can truly only be found on those streets. In the heart of this chaos, the Hillbrow Theatre can be found. This almost 40-year-old theatre forms part of the bigger Outreach Foundation which operates in Hillbrow. It is this foundation which provides a space for children from the community to learn art, music and dance in a relatively safe environment.

The Dance Umbrella Festival was started in 1989 as way to provide a free and open platform to any form of dance. The aim of the festival is to celebrate the diversity of dance in South Africa. And it is for the 30th anniversary of the festival that the Hillbrow Theatre Project will be putting on a dance work titled Hillbrowfication.

This project aims to explore a Hillbrow of the future, where the young cast have been challenged to reimagine their neighbourhood and to develop the show based on their perceptions and experiences of xenophobia and violence in the city.

It leads on from a previous production that the theatre did called Izaro which looked at the Rwandan genocide.

Gerard Bester is the manager of the theatre and has been involved with the project for the past ten years. Speaking about the themes of the project, he said: 芒鈧揥hat was exciting for us was that the conversations that were happening in the theatre were being taken into the classroom, were being taken back home and was confronting teachers and parents about their prejudice and about their misconception about why people come to South Africa so that was very exciting to hear.芒鈧?
The cast consists of 21 children and youth ranging from the age of five- to 22-years-old along with members of Dorkypark. All of the children in the performance are from the surrounding community and are a part of the theatre project. The children also formed a part of the creative process for the performance through debate and conversations around the issues being raised.

The dance work is being directed by Constanza Macras, director of Dorkypark, a Berlin-based dance company. It is being produced along with the Maxim Gorki Theatre Berlin and with the support of the Goethe-institut. The project will be on from 9 and 10 March in Hillbrow. The production will then be moving to Berlin for shows on 1 and 2 April at the Maxim Gorky Theatre.

Bester told The Daily Vox that the theatre got involved with the project because of the importance of collaboration saying, 芒鈧揑t芒鈧劉s an extraordinary collaboration. And the cast have taken to it. It芒鈧劉s got that magical combination for me of professional dancers, we芒鈧劉ve got three of our graduates and then from five years all the way to nineteen years is our participants. I think that coming together of professionals and children provides a space where growth is extraordinary,芒鈧?
The 2018 theme of the theatre is African Futures and this project as well as the high school festival which happens later in the year will be engaging with this topic. Bester said the project wants to unpack what that is and what it means.

芒鈧揊or me, it demands that we engage the imagination, it demands that we engage a possible reimagining of the space, of the neighbourhood that we live in, re imagining ourselves in that space but it芒鈧劉s also looking at the past [鈥 and how we can re imagine that in the future.芒鈧?said Bester.

About the importance of the theatre as a whole, Bester says the theatre provides a safe space where children can come together with a new group of people to play and investigate the world: 芒鈧揂 lot of the participants speak about the Hillbrow Theatre as another home [鈥 So a lot of the children spend over ten hours a week with us and it becomes a safe communal space which there aren芒鈧劉t many in Hillbrow.芒鈧?
He said it芒鈧劉s also a space for those who might be othered because of their sexuality or because they芒鈧劉re a foreign national as it芒鈧劉s a space of acceptance.

The children involved in the project were hard at work running through the final practise before the premiere of the show on the 9th when The Daily Vox team visited the theatre. In the audience, watching the practise was the father of one of the participants, Timothy Nyoui.

His son has been a part of the project for two years and says he has noticed a change in his child as a result of the theatre: 芒鈧揌e is always keen to go to the theatre and now my child is not playing around in the streets so I am well impressed about that.芒鈧?
He says he is very excited to see his child perform because he didn芒鈧劉t think this would be something serious and that he could be watching him one day.

Nyoui says the theatre is very important: 芒鈧揑 wish it can help more children the way they helped with my child. It shows the child will be having a bright future once they join.芒鈧?
More information on how to get tickets and when the show will be on can be found here.

Additional reporting by Rumana Akoob.

Featured image by Rumana Akoob"
"Hub@Goethe!, a hub recently launched in Johannesburg by the Goethe-institut is calling creative projects and tech-driven startups to apply for a free six-month residency. This call is open to all creatives, innovators, developers and entrepreneurs above the age of 18 with specific sustainable projects.

Hub@Goethe not only offer a desk and a chair. Here鈥檚 what startups can expect during the residency period:

Fully Equipped Work Space 鈥?Members will have access to a laptop computer, desk, community discussion table, meeting and presentation space, lounge area and unlimited high speed internet connection.

Community 鈥?Hub@Goethe is aimed at building a creative and startup community. Members will be part of a vibrant community of like-minded creative entrepreneurs who will be ready to share ideas and help you find solutions and also provide motivation.

Entrepreneur Support and Development 鈥?Hub@Goethe will institute an entrepreneur development programme that includes one-on-one mentorship, events and round-table discussions. Top business leaders will be invited to give regular talks and presentations and members will have access to training events hosted by other hubs that collaborate with Hub@Goethe.

Gamebox 鈥?Members working on game development projects may use the Gamebox to test and showcase their games

Library 鈥?Hub@Goethe is located inside the Goethe-institut Johannesburg library and members may to join the library (R80 per year). There is a cafeteria on site for the much needed caffeine boost. A range of meals and snacks are available for sale.

Community Investment 鈥?Members will have an opportunity to give back to the community through participating in eSkills Connect, which is a project that brings together diverse individuals to gain and share basic digital literacy skills.

Application deadline: 31 August 2017

To apply, get the application form Here

Staff Writer"
"Avantika Seeth

Outside, rain clouds tower over the Johannesburg skyline. Inside, in a large, open room packed with 12 work stations housing teams of authors, illustrators and designers, an air of intense focus is ruptured by stirrings of creative activity.

At one table, a painter mixes colours on his palette. The illustrator sitting next to him tweaks a character on his MacBook to match the new scheme. This is traditional art and technology working in harmony.

At another table, an author describes the story she is writing to her team. It is dedicated to her son, who passed away in 2015, and is about a miracle child born with a full set of teeth.

Magical creativity

Anyone stumbling across this room at the Goethe-institut of Language Studies in Rosebank would be impressed at seeing such talent in action, especially when told of the objectives of the creative collaboration.

Called Book Dash, this association of volunteers works to create 12 children鈥檚 books in 12 hours. The finished products are then available free of charge.

This is the ninth collaboration thus far.

Book Dash was conceptualised three years ago as a call to harness the skills of professional African writers, illustrators, designers and editors, with the aim of creating children鈥檚 books for free use and distribution locally and internationally.

鈥淏ook Dash is an organisation that believes that every child should own a book by the age of five,鈥?says co-founder Arthur Attwell.

Attwell, who is involved in the publishing industry, says one of the biggest benefits of an initiative such as this is that funders and sponsors partner with Book Dash to produce large print runs of the books, which can then be given away to thousands of children and libraries around the country.

To date, more than 120 000 printed copies have been given away, and hundreds of thousands of free online downloads have occurred.

This year, a move towards harnessing Pan-African talent has emerged.

鈥淭oday, we have books written and illustrated by people from Nigeria, Ivory Coast, Kenya, Zimbabwe, Ethiopia and other countries, which is very exciting,鈥?says Attwell.





Decolonisation for children

Topics such as the decolonisation of literature, increased access to books and more African stories have been the forefront of public debate recently, and Attwell is a firm believer in how the Book Dash movement is helping to transform the industry.

鈥淭he bottom line is that many countries in the world, particularly African countries, suffer from a poorly developed publishing industry for reasons related to colonial issues and the consequences of colonialism, as well as the simple difficulty that books are seen as luxuries,鈥?says Attwell.

Another primary aim of Book Dash is to make books available cheaply or free of charge, so they come to be regarded as everyday items rather than as luxury goods that can only be purchased once in a while.

鈥淭his is a goal that so many different countries share. One of the other challenges we share is that, often, the books we want for our children are imported titles,鈥?explains Attwell.

Of the many astounding features of Book Dash is that the books can be 鈥?and are 鈥?crowd-translated, through open-source licensing, by any person or organisation which downloads them, making them accessible to an even broader audience.

鈥淥n our website we have about 200 different titles, if you add in all the languages that are available for other organisations or individuals to use,鈥?says Attwell.

All are available in English, and you will also find multiple offerings in isiNdebele, isiXhosa, isiZulu, Sepedi, Sesotho, Setswana, siSwati, Tshivenga, Xitsonga, Afrikaans and French.

Recently, organisations from Brazil and Pakistan got in touch with Book Dash.

鈥淭he other day, we were sent images of our books, which were translated into Urdu from someone in Pakistan, and a team in Brazil was translating the books into Portuguese,鈥?says Attwell.

Mogau has a gift

The books are created according to strict guidelines, and have a 32-page count 鈥?12 pages are illustrated and 24 have text. 鈥淭his is in order to ensure that these books can be successfully produced within the time limit of 12 hours,鈥?explains Attwell.

Simple characterisation and storylines are conceptualised, the goal being to produce diverse, high-quality books.

Lorato Trok, who started writing from the age of eight, was one of the writers invited to be part of today鈥檚 Book Dash.

鈥淭here were hundreds of writers who applied for this. I was one of the few who was selected, so I am very happy to be here,鈥?Trok said. Hers is the story dedicated to her late son.

鈥淚t is a personal story, called Mogau鈥檚 Gift, in celebration of my son鈥檚 life. In a nutshell, it tells of a miracle boy, born with a full set of teeth. The villagers were astounded by this boy, who came along and changed their lives. By the time he was six months old, he could walk and talk and paint,鈥?said Trok.

鈥淗is mother took him out of the village. The two travelled and visited a village which looked exactly like the one Mogau had painted. He eventually became king of the village.鈥?
Trok has just met the illustrator and designer she is working with.

鈥淲riting for children is not easy, but you have to put yourself in their shoes and become a child in that sense. For me, you cannot write without first becoming a reader,鈥?she says with a smile on her face.

- The books are free to download at bookdash.org"
"In 1993, then president FW de Klerk admitted that South Africa had built six nuclear weapons and was working on its seventh when it opted to dismantle its arsenal. The programme, De Klerk explained, had been under way since 1974, arguably signalling an increasingly paranoid and isolated government, but also 鈥?according to De Klerk 鈥?a response to a perceived Soviet threat, particularly during the Cold War. In 1989, after De Klerk took office, the weapons were destroyed, the blueprints shredded.

Cynics speculated at the time that the dying apartheid government may not have dismantled the weapons for entirely altruistic reasons. Today, South Africa remains the only country to have voluntarily destroyed a previously existing nuclear arsenal and subsequently joined the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, a change of heart widely praised at the time. The country has also allowed international inspections of its former nuclear weapons programme. Still, public knowledge remains scant.

For one South African artist, the subject is far from closed. Vincent Bezuidenhout has a new exhibition at the Goethe-institut in Johannesburg, entitled Fail Deadly 鈥?a term in nuclear military strategy neatly coined to contrast failsafe. The implication is clear: aggressors are discouraged from striking first on the understanding that response will be immediate and lethal. But painting a coherent picture wasn鈥檛 easy: details are sketchy, the truth difficult to tease out. So much of the information Bezuidenhout had to work with was blacked out that one entire work was built on a series of redacted pages. Delete.

But who, exactly, deletes uncomfortable chapters of our history? The way Bezuidenhout explains it, the exhibition is a web of photojournalism, image appropriation, landscape photography and archival documentation, woven together to expose the limitations of various media in telling our stories, when storytelling is so often at the mercy of power. In a country once more fighting for media freedom, the comment, perhaps, couldn鈥檛 be more timely.

DM: What made you decide on that particular subject matter for Fail Deadly?

VB: My work is concerned with the psychology of power and the validity of memory relative to history. In a previous project, Separate Amenities, I used landscape photographs to focus on previously segregated recreational landscapes as an expression of the psychology of those who implemented it.

Similarly, Fail Deadly reflects on a specific moment in South African history, considering the psychology of power use by the architects of apartheid. Like petty apartheid employed separate beaches, swimming pools and benches as a way of manufacturing a sense of 鈥渢he other鈥? the apartheid government used a clandestine weapons programme to create fear in their perceived enemies.

DM: Tell us about the exhibition in more detail.

Fail Deadly incorporates various strategies I implemented during the research and making of this work: photojournalism, image appropriation, landscape photography and archival documentation, yet I critically reflect on the limitations of these approaches in artistic practice.

The two elements which I feel combine all this into a cohesive whole are the redacted documents I initially obtained for research, and the Black Landscape series 鈥?the result of my frustration with the lack of information, both within our constructed history, and in the landscape.

DM: What did you 鈥?or didn鈥檛 you 鈥?love about this exhibition?

One piece I love is a sculpture I made in collaboration with artist Chad Rossouw, entitled She Watches Over. It is a scale replica of the Vela satellite, which in 1979 detected a nuclear anomaly close to Marion and Prince Edward islands. Subsequent investigations came to contradictory conclusions, but a prime suspect was a joint South African-Israeli nuclear test. In this work, we wanted to examine the complex interaction between secrecy, government and fear, which intersected with South Africa鈥檚 own history of aggressive nationalism and modernist aspirations.

The very muteness of this work suggests a limit to what representation can reveal. At a time when various countries are again ramping up their nuclear weapon programmes, and with suggestions that we have already entered a second Cold War, I think it pertinent to reflect on this period of South African history.

DM: Growing up, what were your primary influences as a person and artist?

As a white Afrikaans artist growing up in the death throes of apartheid, my past shaped my current practice in reflecting on my identity, relative to the history of power that still shapes our reality today. I grew up in Bloemfontein, in a conservative Afrikaans community, and it was only after leaving this environment that I was able to start interrogating my own and our collective past. As a young photographer, with a certain naivet茅 about concepts such as truth, I soon started to examine the issues of memory, history and power 鈥?with their inherent ability to obfuscate. Over time, my practice has evolved from a formal photographic one to a more multidisciplinary approach.

DM: Tell us a bit more about your thought process in constructing Fail Deadly. You鈥檝e combined a number of different elements 鈥?can you take us through how it became what it is?

Initially aiming to create photographs of a secret weapons programme which no longer exists, the project progressed into a personal investigation into questions of censorship, including the limitations of what representation can reveal. I connected different works in this exhibition to elements of redaction and censorship, but most importantly to the limitations of information in being able to confront history.

While on residency at the School of Visual Arts in New York, I staged an intervention at the Picture Collection of the Mid-Manhattan Library. I took a set of declassified, but completely redacted documents from South Africa鈥檚 nuclear weapons programme, and anonymously inserted them into the Picture Collection under seemingly disparate folders: Radiation, Security, Detectives, Colonialism, South Africa 鈥?Transvaal, Cowboys, etc. The documentation of this intervention forms part of my current exhibition.

The Black Landscape series is a direct result of looking at the limitations of traditional photographic works and linking this to the redacted documents. I developed inkjet prints consisting of two layers, the initial print being a landscape shot near the locations of the nuclear facilities, which was then printed over in solid black. The two layers of ink created a ghost image.

DM: You mention reflecting on your own identity through the piece too.

The failure of all of us to adequately confront our past is perhaps one of the major themes running through contemporary South African art. It is almost impossible not make political art in such an environment where so much is unresolved.

As distanced and objective as I may want to be, I feel the work still speaks to a personal and collective conflict between past and present. The result has been the conflation of incompatible narratives 鈥?my conflicted personal history, as well as our collective one, through using omission and cover-ups to confront incomplete narratives; manifestations of past powers.

DM: I鈥檓 intrigued by your saying you鈥檝e exploited the aesthetics of research, rather than its results, in exploring the limitations of documentation or narrative. Can you explain that a little?

Confronted with very little information and evidence elements photography thrives on, I exploited the aesthetic nature of the documents I obtained, which contained black page after black page of redacted information. This led to the work entitled Pelindaba (Zulu for The discussion is finished and also the name of the nuclear facility where these weapons were made). Pelindaba comprises over 900 pages of declassified documents from various sources including the NSA, CIA and internal government communications. I present all these documents on a plinth in the gallery for the viewer to page though.

The documents revealing nothing 鈥?this became the basis for the rest of the work. I started to construct a narrative that allowed me to expand on and recontextualise the facts and theories surrounding these events, examining these elements of history and power.

DM: Secrecy is a touchy subject in South Africa, and it鈥檚 rearing its head again now. Is this theme of selective revelation something you鈥檒l explore again?

In working on this project I encountered resistance in various guises, including thinly veiled threats about exploring a part of history still relatively unknown, and which encapsulates certain diplomatic sensitivities. I do feel, however, that the lack of disclosure and failure of justice being served regarding this clandestine programme speaks to a constructed narrative that permeates all of South African history. Fail Deadly highlights this failure and [questions] the validity of official information as the sole creator of history.

DM: How do you envision the role or purpose of the country鈥檚 artists in the future?

In my opinion, if art is not political it is not art. With increasing inequality and censorship both here and abroad, it is more important than ever for cultural institutions, like the Goethe-institut, to be brave through strengthening their support for arts, which in many ways have become the last place to speak the truth.

In a previous project entitled Banned, I appropriated footage from movies censored during apartheid. This project was censored in both Uganda and Zimbabwe for including footage of a homosexual nature. Regardless of both countries鈥?controversial laws regarding homosexuality, the paradox of censoring footage originally banned during apartheid reminds one that when there is a transition of power within a state, the mechanisms of the previous regime are also transferred. We must be vigilant of the rewriting of history, including how it is created today.

DM: What鈥檚 the most exciting or promising aspect of being an artist, and being one now?

I think it is harder to be an artist than ever before, in terms of the justification of making art. Perhaps at a time of spineless apathy and ignorance it is also the most important time to be making art.

DM: What鈥檚 next for you?

I am always working on several projects simultaneously, with time and funding playing a large role in which come to fruition first. This includes a few video projects, one of which follows on from Fail Deadly. I am also working on a long-term photographic project in the holiday town Hartenbos. DM

Bezuidenhout will hold an artist walkabout on 24 July 2016 at the Goethe on Main gallery. This interview was edited for brevity."
"

The inaugural Abantu Book Festival is taking place in Soweto from the 6-10 December this year.

The festival is the brainchild of Thando Mgqolozana (director) while Panashe Chigumadzi will curate the event this year.



The Abantu Book Festival recently announced a partnership with the Goethe-institut, which will include a Literary Crossroads event featuring NoViolet Bulawayo and Zimbabwean spoken-word poet Cynthia Marangwanda:

The Goethe-institut is proud to announce its partnership with the Abantu Book Festival which will be taking place in Soweto from the 06-10 of December 2016. Furthermore the December edition of Literary Crossroads will take place at the festival on Saturday, 10th of December 2016 where authors NoViolet Bulawayo and Cynthia Marangwanda will be the featured guests. Make sure you check out http://www.abantubookfestival.co.za/ for more information. See Goethe-institut Johannesburg on Facebook for more

If you would like to contribute to the project, you can do so via PayPal or by emailing molweni@abantubookfestival.co.za.

FIRST APPEAL The Abantu Book Festival started as a story, a work of fiction posted on Facebook in September 2015, in which author Thando Mgqolozana imagined a decolonised book event as a healing project for black writers and readers. Now, the dream is about to become reality. There has never been a mainstream literary festival in South Africa like Abantu. When it kicks off in December 2016 it will be a powerful counter to the status quo 鈥?where all meaningful literary activity has been the preserve of privileged readers, mostly in white suburbia. But to build this new reality we need your help. Some partnerships have been established but we are far from raising the budget we need to make Abantu happen. Various grant-making institutions are considering our proposals, but we鈥檙e afraid time鈥檚 running out. So we are asking you to put your hearts and purses into a common purpose to build a new way of being for our literature. Any amount you can spare, however small, will be used to help establish this platform that will raise the voice of the next generation. We will deliver a programme that brings readers and writers together in an inspirational and unique environment. We will also collaborate with community groups to present a groundbreaking programme of activities for readers of all ages. Abantu cannot remain a fantasy. With thanks,

The Festival Team See Abantu Book Festival to donate

The authors and full Abantu Book Festival programme will be announced soon. Watch this space!



Related stories:

鈥淟ook at Yourselves 鈥?It鈥檚 Very Abnormal鈥? Thando Mgqolozana Quits South Africa鈥檚 鈥淲hite Literary System鈥?
Book details

Sweet Medicine by Panashe Chigumadzi

EAN: 9781928337126

Find this book with BOOK Finder!"
"10 Reasons to Watch Africa in 2016

10 Reasons to Watch Africa in 2016

In 2016, th械 world faces uncertainty 邪nd volatility 鈥?邪褧 w械ll 邪褧 huge opportunities f芯r significant progress. Africa stands n芯t just t芯 g邪褨n fr芯m th械褧械 major shifts, but 邪l褧芯 t芯 lead 褧芯m械 芯f th械m.

Th械 global landscape 褨褧 certainly challenging, w褨th th械 political 邪nd economic news dominated b褍 slowing growth, rocky stock markets, falling commodity prices, risks 褨n emerging markets (especially China), increasing numbers 芯f refugees, geopolitical tensions 邪nd th械 threat 芯f violent extremism.

H芯w械v械r, 2016 m邪褍 n芯t 褧械械 th械 catastrophe 褧芯m械 邪r械 predicting. Th械 markets 邪r械 m芯褧t likely overreacting. Th械 IMF 褨褧 predicting growth 芯f 3.4% 褨n 2016 邪nd 3.6% 褨n 2017, u褉 fr芯m 3.1% 褨n 2015. B械h褨nd th械 gloom 芯f th械 24-hour news cycle, th械r械 邪r械 m邪n褍 reasons t芯 b械 optimistic.

Wh械r械邪褧 2015 w邪褧 th械 year 芯f agreements, 2016 w褨ll b械 a year 芯f transformations 鈥?褨n energy, finance, technology 邪nd global partnership. Th械褧械 w褨ll h邪v械 profound effects 芯n Africa.

H械r械 邪r械 10 scenarios th邪t w械 褧械械 unfolding 褨n 2016 f芯r Africa:

1. Climate g邪褨n褧

COP 21 褨n Paris w邪褧 邪n unambiguous success. Th械 expectations 芯f m邪n褍 w械r械 surpassed 邪nd th械 direction 芯f travel w邪褧 identified. In 2016, th械 challenge w褨ll b械 th械 speed 芯f th邪t travel. W械 need t芯 m芯v械 faster. At COP 21, African nations seized th械 chance t芯 shift th械 climate narrative fr芯m 芯n械 芯f dependence t芯 芯n械 芯f opportunity 邪nd transformation. Th械 year 2016 w褨ll 褧械械 Africa making advances 褨n low-carbon energy wh褨l械 defending 褨t褧 right t芯 exploit fossil fuels. W褨th th械 cost 芯f solar falling rapidly (by 芯v械r 10% 械邪褋h year) huge opportunities exist.

2. Private sector momentum

Th械 private sector w褨ll emerge 邪褧 a critical catalyst f芯r achieving global climate targets, especially ensuring th邪t carbon emissions peak w褨th褨n th械 n械xt f褨v械 t芯 t械n years. Th械 year 2016 w褨ll 褧械械 m芯r械 CEOs demanding a carbon price. W褨th 褨t褧 growing population, increasing consumer demand, 邪nd massive infrastructure needs, Africa 褨褧 ideally placed t芯 benefit fr芯m th褨褧 new catalytic private sector.

3. Energy transformations

Africa鈥檚 energy challenge 褨褧 substantial. Th械 Africa Progress Panel, chaired b褍 Kofi Annan, 褨褧 calling f芯r a ten-fold increase 褨n power generation 褨n Africa b褍 2030. Ov械r th械 past year, th械 political ambition 邪褋r芯褧褧 Africa t芯 radically transform th械 energy sector h邪褧 increased substantially. Th械 global context 褨褧 邪l褧芯 shifting 褨n th械 light 芯f COP 21. Th褨褧 year w褨ll 褧械械 greater global 邪nd regional political engagement 芯n Africa鈥檚 energy access. Th械 African Development Bank鈥檚 New Deal 芯n Energy f芯r Africa w褨ll encourage a broad coalition t芯 seize th械 momentum 芯f 2015 邪nd achieve quick wins b褍 2020. Key partners include th械 UK鈥檚 Department 芯f International Development 邪nd USAID鈥檚 Power Africa.

4. Building th械 new multilateralism

In 2015, Africa received th械 global attention 褨t deserved 邪t top-level international meetings 芯n financing f芯r development, new global development goals 邪nd climate change. At th械褧械 meetings, governments 邪褋r芯褧褧 th械 world showed th械褍 褋芯uld look b械褍芯nd th械褨r 芯wn borders. N芯w th褨褧 year 褨褧 邪b芯ut full 邪nd fair implementation. Citizens w褨ll play a key role b褍 holding th械褨r leaders t芯 account 邪g邪褨n褧t th械 targets th械褍 h邪v械 set th械m褧械lv械褧.

5. Falling commodity prices w褨ll drive diversification

Resource-rich African economies 褧u褋h 邪褧 Angola, Nigeria, Ghana 邪nd Zambia face a 褧械r褨芯u褧 threat fr芯m falling commodity prices. Th械褧械 countries need t芯 f褨nd alternative sources 芯f finance. China w褨ll continue t芯 b械 a key player 褨n th褨褧 respect, but 褨n 2016, India w褨ll b械 a strong competitor. Falling commodity prices m邪褍 邪l褧芯 offer 褧芯m械 African countries th械 opportunity t芯 diversify th械褨r economies 邪nd cut fuel subsidies th邪t h邪v械 exacerbated inequality.

6. Africa鈥檚 green 邪nd blue revolutions

F芯r m邪n褍 countries, th械 story 邪b芯ut falling commodity prices w褨ll transform 褨nt芯 a story 邪b芯ut Africa鈥檚 green 邪nd blue revolutions: t芯 diversify th械褨r economies, th械褧械 countries w褨ll focus 芯n agriculture 邪nd fisheries. African farming w褨ll n芯 longer b械 seen 邪褧 a development problem but 邪n exciting business opportunity. Smallholder farmers 邪褋r芯褧褧 Africa h邪v械 邪n unrivalled capacity f芯r resilience 邪nd innovation 邪nd 褋芯uld feed rapidly growing urban populations 邪nd generate exports t芯 meet demand 褨n global markets. An immediate priority w褨ll b械 promoting import substitution t芯 cut Africa鈥檚 $35 billion annual food import b褨ll. Th褨褧 w褨ll require measures t芯 cut tariffs 邪nd non-tariff barriers t芯 regional trade, eliminate transport cartels, 邪nd develop marketing infrastructure. Increased investment 褨n infrastructure 邪nd research w褨ll begin t芯 dramatically raise farmers鈥?yields 邪nd incomes.

7. Africa 邪nd th械 Fourth Industrial Revolution

Significant investments w褨ll b械 m邪d械 褨n new technologies led b褍 th械 private sector 邪nd supported b褍 th械 international community. A褧 neatly described 褨n Klaus Schwab鈥檚 book, Th械 Fourth Industrial Revolution, 褨t 褨褧 th械 fusion 芯f new technologies 邪nd th械褨r interaction 邪褋r芯褧褧 th械 physical, digital 邪nd biological domains th邪t make th褨褧 Fourth Industrial Revolution fundamentally different fr芯m previous revolutions. Venture capital funds 邪r械 r械邪d褍 邪nd waiting t芯 invest 邪褋r芯褧褧 Africa. Th械 n械xt step 褨褧 t芯 bring t芯g械th械r th械 public 邪nd private sectors t芯 drive th械 deals 邪褧 quickly 邪褧 possible. In 2016, rapid technological changes h邪v械 th械 potential t芯 create new industries, reduce inequality 邪nd drive structural transformation.

8. Financing forward

A lack 芯f available finance continues t芯 b械 a key constraint f芯r Africa. But 2016 w褨ll 褧械械 significant investments 邪褧 big finance moves t芯 tap th械 potential 芯f th械 80% 芯f citizens wh芯 邪r械 excluded fr芯m th械 financial 褧褍褧t械m. Mobile technology w褨ll b械 pivotal 褨n addressing th褨褧 unmet need. Local banks w褨ll begin t芯 function m芯r械 邪褧 鈥渞eal鈥?banks serving th械 demands 芯f small 邪nd medium-sized enterprises, m邪n褍 芯f wh芯m 邪r械 dynamic 鈥渁gropreneurs鈥? Mobilizing domestic savings w褨ll b械 crucial. Pension funds w褨ll b械 increasingly seen 邪褧 邪n essential 邪nd exciting means t芯 provide long-term capital.

9. Managing migration

Migration 芯ut 芯f Africa w褨ll continue t芯 feature 芯n th械 international policy 邪nd news agendas. In 2016, 褧芯m械 African leaders w褨ll begin t芯 tackle th械 underlying forces driving th褨褧 trend. At th械 褧邪m械 t褨m械, th械 global dialogue related t芯 th械 movement 芯f people fr芯m Africa t芯 Europe w褨ll start t芯 shift fr芯m b械褨ng seen 邪褧 a crisis t芯 a potential win-win 褨f managed m芯r械 proactively.

10. Global influence

Africa鈥檚 dynamism, voice 邪nd presence w褨ll increase 邪褋r芯褧褧 international arenas. Africans, especially th械 millions 芯f young people, w褨ll continue t芯 explore novel opportunities related t芯 booming new technologies. A褧 a result, m邪n褍 African countries w褨ll f褨nd th械m褧械lv械褧 邪t th械 forefront 芯f global innovation 邪褋r芯褧褧 m邪n褍 sectors including technology, creative 邪nd cultural industries, 邪nd sports.

鈥?Caroline Kende-Robb 褨褧 Executive Director: Africa Progress Panel 鈥?www. weforum.org"
"Brian Kamanzi is a Cape Town-based writer and electrical engineering Masters student at the University of Cape Town. He describes himself as committed to the social upliftment of his fellow people. He is a budding Pan-Africanist eager to make contributions to the movement and form cross-cultural connections with others in the struggle. Follow his writing online at www.briankamanzi.wordpress.com

South Africa, as a territory, having witnessed several waves of European colonialism from different nations, has had and continues to have different models and systems of education in active operation. In 1658, six years after the arrival of settlers as part of a Dutch East India Company trade mission, the first Western school was established for children who had been enslaved and captured off a Portuguese slave trader and brought to South Africa on a ship called the Amersfoort. This school, co-founded by Jan van Riebeeck, was said to provide an oppressive environment that played a significant role in imposing identities onto the children presumably to teach content fit to enable them to work in the labour market of the burgeoning Cape Colony.

Later, as a by-product of settler expansion, the need for the European diaspora to expand public schooling for their families increased and in 1791 the Dutch commissioner-general, Jacob Abraham Uitenhage de Mist, facilitated the development of the idea of a 鈥淪outh African College鈥?(later South African College of Schools). As the British colonial forces took over the Cape Colony the development of the school had reached its final stages and it had opened for classes by 1829.

The system conceptualised by the Dutch diaspora had strong relationships with the Dutch Reformed Church which also played key roles in the development of the school. In 1948 the Nationalist Party came into power, later going on to establish the apartheid (separate development) set of policies. Crucial to their ideological project was the implementation of the Bantu Education Act in 1953, which provided education that prepared masses of natives and racialised peoples from elsewhere into the labour market as factory workers, low level managers, servants and so on.

In recalling part 1 of these reflections we note the development of the elite campus the University of Cape Town from the South African College of Schools through the financing and encouragement of British imperialist Cecil John Rhodes.

Brazil, which experienced European invasion in 1500, saw its first elementary Western schools established in 1549 by the Society of Jesus (Jesuits) in Salvador, which was the primary port for the transatlantic slave trade. The school鈥檚 ideological function, among many, served to convert the indigenous population while engaging on trade, architecture, science, literature, languages, arts, music and religious debate offering classes for men, thus also contributing to engendering the native and enslaved population. Until the mid-1700s the Jesuits were responsible for almost the entire public education system; however this eventually came into conflict with the economic interests King Jos茅 I鈥檚 regime in Portugal which felt that the education system ought to be subordinated to the state and not the church.

In the period of 1822-1824 during Brazil鈥檚 initial transition to independence from Portugal, the significant changes to the education system included the declaration of free elementary school education for all citizens. This injunction also brought state policies that prevented black students from attending the same schools purportedly for, among other things, fear of transmitting diseases. It is worthwhile here to remember that slavery was formally abolished only in 1888. In interesting ways this provides us with historical tools to question and interrogate the changing nature of who constitutes the 鈥減ublic鈥?and the notion of who really comprises the 鈥渦niversal鈥?and of course who is implicitly or explicitly excluded as a result.

From here is was not long before the first major university, University of S茫o Paulo, was established in 1934 as elites within the former colony began to expand their institutional capacity. This led to the professionalisation of the high school system.

During the dictatorship, accords signed by the Ministry of Education and Culture-USAID, a joint programme of reform, shifted the state鈥檚 focus from public schools to private education and signalled the introduction of English education at an elementary level. These changes were subjected to massive student protests and remain an important bit of context in light of the contemporary Brazilian free public higher education system which severely biases students with private schooling.

During the early years of the military dictatorship, liberal theology proponent and education scholar Paulo Freire had been sentenced to 70 days in prison after having worked on experimental literacy programmes, purportedly managing to facilitate over 300 sugar cane workers learning to read and write in 45 days. Freire, as but one example of the many working in this field, went on to write a crucially important text, Pedagogy of the Oppressed, after working in Chile and Bolivia after his release. This text, among many others, has gone on to inspire popular education programmes in radical organisations all over the world including the Black Consciousness Movement and Non-European Unity Movement during the anti-apartheid struggle of South Africa.

Alongside Freire鈥檚 contributions sit the works of Augusto Boal whose method of Theatre of the Oppressed has been used all over the world from Palestine to the United States for liberatory education and theatre, community organising, healing from trauma, community-based analysis and so on, building on the ideas of education to use theatre as a tool for social and political change.

In Brazil in the epoch post-military dictatorship, 1980s onwards, the left coalition government has made several major reforms including improvements in access, adult literacy programmes, feeding schemes for schools, target social grant schemes such as Bolsa Familia and free public tertiary education. Brazil went on to experience an increase in school enrolment for children age 7鈥?4, from 80.9% in 1980 to 96.4% in the year 2000. In the 15-17 age demographic, over the same period, this rate rose from 49.7% to 83%, literacy rates also rose from 75% to 90.0%.

In the case of South Africa the post-1994 constitutional democracy, as a result of the separate development policies of the apartheid regime, the incoming government initially inherited a system with 19 different departments of education with their own staggered levels of quality, values and assumptions. Poor infrastructure, particularly in rural areas, malnourishment and low levels of access to institutions were massive stumbling blocks for the new government. This to a certain extent was softened by social grant schemes, dramatic increases in financial spending on education and governance overhauls of the national system. Access to primary and secondary schooling improved significantly, with near universal enrolment in primary schooling. The starting grade enrolment reached near universal enrolment and more than 90% of learners aged between 7 and 15 are enrolled in school. Gross secondary enrolment improved from 51% percent in 1994 to 89% in 2012. Between 2002 and 2014 there has been an increase in the percentage of 15 to 24-year-old youth who have completed Grade 9 and above from 63.4% in 2002 to 78% in 2014 which demonstrates the considerable improvements in access to date.

As part of a conditional social grand scheme named Bolsa familia, the Zero Hunger Project, of the Brazilian Inacio da Silva Lula government prioritised the issue of food security in its social policy. This state project highlighted the need for food sovereignty and called for the bolstering of local agriculture and an emphasis on 鈥渇ood culture鈥?

By 2007 the project had extended its operations across the vast majority of public schools as well as schools in the reserves of indigenous peoples and quilombos, villages built by Afro-descendent Brazilians post-enslavement. The buying scheme of the project was also built to support local food chains.

By 2004 the state of S茫o Paulo had a population of one million and the feeding scheme serviced over 160,000 students across 518 public cr猫ches, preschools and primary schools and was considered to be one of the most successful models in Brazil.

By 2006 the national scheme provided BRL 1.5-billion (about $797-million). The financial resources are used at a municipal level to ensure that over 37-million students (out of a total population of approx 200-million) in the country鈥檚 public schools have access to feeding programmes. The scheme has since suffered from waves of corruption which have resulted in a number of protests and school occupations across Brazil. As recently as May 2016 demonstrations across S茫o Paulo aired this issue.

In post-apartheid South Africa national nutrition schemes such as the National School Nutrition Programme provided a framework for providing healthy and nutritious meals options for 鈥減oorer鈥?schools and mandated the offices to encourage the development of food gardens and so on in schools.

In their 2013/14 annual report the basic education minister cited the recipients at 9,131,836 learners, out of a total population in excess of 50-million, across 19,383 schools nationally. This number includes learners from low-income households, primary and secondary as well as special schools for students with disability. The total budget for the scheme extended to R6.006 billion in the coming 2016/17 period (http://www.gov.za/speeches/minister-angie-motshekga-basic-education-dept-budget-vote-201617-10-may-2016-0000). This programme has also been marred by corruption scandals and has been cited as having had many key challenges in basic service delivery and lack of the necessary infrastructure in schools such as refrigerators.

In 2013 massive national strikes, particularly intense in major cities, sparked by hikes in transport fares and the corruption scandals surrounding the Fifa World Cup led calls for demands to improve services and access in healthcare and education. These massive strikes which had high levels of student participation later culminated in new and bolstered social movements that have led to schools occupations resisting school closures among other things.

In mid-2016 the finalisation of a drawn-out constitutional coup d鈥檈tat of the labour government which ushered in the Temer regime. Mass protests counter protests and demostrations followed after what was consider a right wing take over including resistance to the new governments鈥?threats from the government to impose austerity measures and repeal progressive gains on social welfare policies. In a recent wave of schools protests a 16-year-old student, Ana J煤lia, went viral for sharing her thoughts on the occupations that have gripped both public high schools and university campuses across the country, sharing that 鈥渙ne week of occupations has brought us much more knowledge about politics and citizenship than in many years of study in the classroom鈥?

Graffiti on a wall in Ilha do Boror茅. It reads, 鈥?0% of you people killed [by police] are Black鈥? Picture by Brian Kamanzi

Schools protests in post-apartheid South Africa have not by any means been unfamiliar as low teacher wages, poor infrastructure and lack of government support has seen the flames of a widespread education crisis weighing heavily on a system that looks set to buckle under the weight of post-liberation expectations.

Organisations and movements such as Equal Education have come primarily to challenge the schooling infrastructure crisis and lack of service delivery. There have also been protests against racist codes of conduct, institutional culture and patriarchal governance structure that discriminate against and victimise women and nonbinary people.

鈥楽chool without party鈥?vs STEM focus in South Africa.

In the Brazilian case, this year鈥檚 demonstrations extended to over 1,200 schools and, as explained in Fernando Pureza鈥檚 article 鈥淏razil鈥檚 Student Upsurge鈥? broadly pivoted on demands rejecting the proposed freezing of government spending 鈥?issued by Temer 鈥?along with demands for school reforms and resistance to the implementation of a right-wing education policy, 鈥淪chool without party鈥?

鈥淪chool without party鈥?is essentially a policy that calls for the contextual, intentionally political and social dimensions of the curriculum to be removed from the public system. The dual attack of 鈥淪chool without party鈥?as ideology and the economic control of austerity are blatant attacks on progressive education programmes some of which continue to battle through Freirian methodologies.

During a visit to a public school in the far south of S茫o Paulo, organised by the Goethe-institut in the city, a delegation I was part of consisting of primarily academics and artists engaged with community activists, school students and teachers at Escola Estadual Professor Adri茫o Bernardes in Ilha do Boror茅, I saw the different groups working hard to make do with what they had collaborating on vegetable gardens, creative murals at the school and so on. The school itself, while visibly under-resourced, was designed with security bars around and embedded in a community on the periphery of the city embattled with racialised police brutality and difficult social conditions. The very notion of context-denied public education curricula in environments facing severe social difficulties is, I think, deeply disturbing.

Outside the Escola Estadual Professor Adri茫o Bernardes in Ilha do Boror茅. Photo: Brian Kamanzi

Inside the Escola Estadual Professor Adri茫o Bernardes in Ilha do Boror茅. Photo: Brian Kamanzi

In South Africa, I recall my own journey in the shell of a former Model C school (British system) 鈥?Umtata High School, abandoned by its former white constituents in Mthatha in the Eastern Cape. It was during my journey through the school and its feeder that we saw the once English/Afrikaans-only school slowly transition into English/Afrikaans/Xhosa. We also, as the first group of students nationwide, participated in the Outcomes Based Education curriculum reform which had aspirations to student-guided learning, contextual engagement among other things but was later scrapped for a number of reasons, not the least of which included poor, uneven infrastructure and a lack of support and coherence from above.

Through this process we also witnessed the rolling out of programmes privileging and promoting Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) education and business education at the visible expense of the social sciences. By the time I matriculated in 2008 my school no longer offered history as a subject up to matric level. The little history I had done began with Jan van Riebeeck and Vasco da Gama and ended with Mandela, saying little to nothing about the world in which we found ourselves on a daily basis.

Since arriving to Cape Town in 2009 and working with schools across Khayelitsha, Mfuleni and Samora Machel I have noted much worse conditions alongside the shelving and continuous undermining of the role of the social sciences.

Speaking briefly to the broader notions of education I think it is important to expand our understanding of where education takes place and who can (and does) produce knowledge. Powerful examples of precisely this lie in old, powerful community organisations such as the Samba schools in Brazil which provide space to engage on African diasporic history, contemporary social-political challenges in communities and spiritual engagement of various kinds.

Dance and theatre, for example, may have connotations of decadence and elite extracurriculars in European societies and yet in the examples of the Samba school this is decidedly not the case. Carnivals and the processes that go into organising them from year to year provide spaces for intergenerational dialogue and epistemic dissent in the face of a society that commodifies their culture and negate its validity.

In Cape Town the tweedenuwejaar carnival, continuing from the 17th century, as initially practised by the enslaved peoples of the Cape as a day of celebration and coded mocking of the slave masters, we see the legacy of history that is absent from many of the most accessible historical narratives about what happened in what is known as South Africa.

In looking at these examples and in the spirit of decolonisation perhaps it is for us to begin to see, support and elevate education as practice but also in forms that may not be immediately recognisable to western sensibilities of formality but carry meaning and practical importance that has survived and adapted itself for centuries.

The reflections from the South African and Brazilian examples offer us many potential sites of inquiry and opportunities for collaboration in the free decolonised education movement, I think. The lessons from the indigenous resistance movements, be it for education or land, for example, are often painted as local, particular and never international and yet those same struggles exist in places thousands of kilometres away. What can be learnt about creating spaces for indigenous medical systems and knowledges into formerly colonial social-infrastructure such as universities across contexts? Are we providing space and resources for these conversations to happen?

Beyond this, as the term 鈥渄ecolonisation鈥?begins to become popular nationwide will we be able to balance the need for extensive, complex systems providing services to large numbers of people (such as literacy campaigns, food schemes and so on) all the while attempting to balance the need for local context and urgencies? More explicitly, we need to unpack what some of the productive tensions between statist responses to 鈥渄ecolonisation鈥?to those that are more anarchic, local and decentralised.

If there is one thing I鈥檓 sure about it鈥檚 the necessity for transnational efforts, particularly those outside of the colonial alignment of our past 鈥?beyond the Anglophone world, in making serious long-lasting gains in a world that has become so large and yet so small that governments can pretend as though reforms like 鈥淔ree Education鈥?have never existed in the world and are utopian. In a world with the global right wing on the march, imagination and creativity remain our most reliable weapons against oppression. As the timeless Frelimo slogan demanded of us all, A luta continua. DM"
"

The 19th edition of the Time of the Writer festival is presented by the Centre for Creative Arts (UKZN) in partnership with various organisations this year.

The eThekwini Municipality Libraries department has partnered with the Centre for Creative Arts, in supporting the community engagement programme of the festival in which a series of events entitled Conversations that Matter will take place in public libraries around the City. The City will also be purchasing two copies of each book by each writer featured at the festival which will be distributed to 92 eThekwini Municipal Libraries. The festival together with eThekwini Municipality has organised a park and ride shuttle service to the various venues. The shuttle will pick up passengers from Durban Centrum Park where you will be able to securely park your car, from Tuesday through to Saturday at both 10:00 and 17:30 each day.

The Festival has also partnered with the Etisalat Prize for Literature, the first ever pan-African prize celebrating first time writers of published fiction books. Etisalat, will bring three shortlisted writers for a reading at the Time of the Festival as well as donation of 1,000 books to one of the City鈥檚 local libraries.

Independent news agency The Daily Vox will be live streaming the festival and providing a platform for online engagement from audiences.

This year鈥檚 Festival Book Drive received support from Independent Newspapers and Gcina Mhlophe鈥檚 Nozincwadi: Mother of Books Project, which promotes a culture of reading throughout the country. Through this partnership a rural school will be awarded books collected at events hosted by the Centre for Creative Arts.

Time of the Writer has partnered with the KZN Music Imbizo to present Notes on Music. Each evening a different musician will take to the stage before the nightly panel, to perform a new piece of music based on the artist鈥檚 interpretation of the festival participants鈥?written work. There will also be a short discussion facilitated by Salim Washington (UKZN) and Sphephelo Mbhele (KZN Music Imbizo), with the artist providing some insight into what went into composing that piece of music.

All events are FREE to library or student cardholders. For members of the public without either card, a nominal fee of R20 will be requested at the box office one hour before the event. The eThekwini Municipal Libraries along with The Centre for Creative Arts will be on hand at each venue in order to aid those without library cards to sign up for one on the spot, all that it requires is a valid ID document and proof of residence.

For more details on this years鈥?Time of the Writer, visit www.cca.ukzn.ac.za or call (031) 260 2506

Organised by the Centre for Creative Arts (University KwaZulu-Natal), the 19th Time of the Writer is supported by the City of Durban, the National Department of Arts and Culture, The Goethe-institut and Alliance Fran莽aise de Durban. The Centre for Creative Arts is housed in the College of Humanities at the University of KwaZulu-Natal and is a special project of the Deputy Vice-Chancellor, Professor Cheryl Potgieter.



Related stories:

2016 Time of the Writer Festival heading to Clermont, Cato Manor, Umlazi, Inanda and KwaMashu

Decolonising the Book 鈥?2016 Time of the Writer programme revealed

Special programme for 19th Time of the Writer, 14 鈥?19 March 2016

Programme announced for the 19th Time of the Writer (14 鈥?19 March)

Book details

Songs and Stories of Africa: An Audio CD by Gcina Mhlophe

EAN: 9781869141141

Find this book with BOOK Finder!

The Story of Anna P, as Told by Herself by Penny Busetto

Book homepage

EAN: 9781431410163

Find this book with BOOK Finder!

What Will People Say by Rehana Rossouw

Book homepage

EAN: 9781431420247

Find this book with BOOK Finder!"
"Bloodbath at the beach

Ivory Coast ministers were to hold emergency talks later yesterday after the first jihadist attack in the country left at least 18 people dead at a beach resort popular with foreigners.Armed with grenades and assault rifles, the attackers stormed three hotels in the weekend resort of Grand-Bassam.Witnesses described scenes of panic as gunmen sprayed bullets across the beach. One said he heard an assailant shouting ""Allahu Akbar"" - Arabic for ""God is great"".The gunmen killed at least 15 civilians, including four French citizens and a German, and three soldiers. Interior Minister Hamed Bakayoko told reporters in Abidjan yesterday that three attackers had been killed.Al-Qaeda in the Maghreb and al-Mourabitoune claimed responsibility for the attack.UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon pledged to help ""efforts to bring the perpetrators of these crimes to justice"".Former colonial power France blasted ""the cowardly attack"" and offered to help track the culprits while the US vowed to fight ""terrorists who seek to undermine efforts by West African governments.""It was the third such attack in four months in West Africa and a blow to a nation working to lure back tourists to its palm-fringed beaches and rainforests as it recovers from a brutal civil war.A total of 33 people were injured, 26 of whom are still in hospital.The German victim was named as Henrike Grohs, who headed Abidjan's Goethe-institut.Grohs, 51, joined the German cultural association in December 2013 and worked as a culture and development professional at the Goethe-institut in Johannesburg.The Goethe-institut Johannesburg said: ""We are grief-stricken. It is impossible to imagine that this light and generous person, who had such a lust for life and passion for the arts and her work, has been ripped from us in such an untimely and horrific way.''Carine Boa, a Belgian-Ivorian teacher at an international high school in Abidjan, was at one of the beach bars with her two sons when the gunmen arrived. ""I thought this was it for us.""""I saw one of the attackers from far away,"" said Abbas El-Roz, a Lebanese salesman who was in the pool of a hotel when the attackers struck. ""He had a Kalashnikov and a grenade belt. He was looking for people.""Hundreds gathered at the attack site yesterday morning and one woman was in tears as she looked for her missing son, a vendor at the beach. ""He's not in hospital and not at the morgue,"" she said. ""I don't know where he is. He's handicapped.""Salata, an ice-cream seller, said she was in shock. ""I couldn't sleep at night,"" she said. ""I'm going to get back my ice box from the beach but I'm scared they'll start shooting again.""West African nations have scrambled to boost security after jihadist attacks in November and January on upscale hotels in the capitals of Mali and Burkina Faso that were also claimed by the al-Qaeda group.Robert Besseling of Exx Africa, an intelligence company, said the attacks should not have come as a surprise. ""Cote d'Ivoire has been receiving warnings for at least a year from France's intelligence service."".."
"CALL FOR APPLICATIONS: JOURNALISTIC COMIC PROJECT

The French Institute of South Africa (IFAS) and the Goethe-institut will be supporting a month-long residency for 3 comic artists (one South African, one German and one French) in June in Cape Town. During this residency, each comic artist will be assisted by a local journalist. Together, they will explore a journalistic topic dealing with migration.

The comic artists who have been invited to participate in this residency project are Su Opperman (South Africa), Kai Pfeiffer (Germany) and Hippolyte (France).

Journalists with a minimum of two years professional experience, and who are based in Cape Town, are hereby invited to submit an expression of interest and examples of their published work, should they be interested in participating in this residency. To qualify for this project, journalists should be no older than 35 years.

Invited Journalists will be paid a fee to collaborate with one of the invited artists in researching and creating a reportage on a topic which the selected artists and journalist will agree upon.

Please forward expressions of interest (no longer than 200 words), a short CV (not longer than one page) as well as copies of at least 2 published texts to Francois Venter (venter@johannesburg.goethe.org) by no later than Wednesday 27 April.

The names of selected journalists will be announced by 16 May 2016.

For enquiries, please contact Mickey Makpolo at (0)11 403 0458."
"Short Story Day Africa in partnership with the Goethe-institut invite submissions to a series of free one-day workshops across the continent.

The seven Migrations Flow Workshops are designed to assist writers working on an entry to the 2016 Short Story Day Africa Prize.

Stories by African writers on the theme of Migrations are eligible for the R10,000 prize, and will be collected into an anthology, the fourth to be published by the Pan African project, which is based in Cape Town.

Space at the workshops is limited and writers wishing to attend should send a 200 word writing sample to info@shortstorydayafrica.org by 1 June.

鈥淭he success of the three Water Flow Workshops held in southern Africa last year resulted in writers across the continent approaching us to hold workshops in their cities,鈥?SSDA鈥檚 Rachel Zadok says. 鈥淲e are delighted that our new partnership with the Goethe-institut has allowed us to responds to that call.鈥?
The Migrations Flow Workshops will be held on 18 June, 2016 in Lagos (Nigeria), Windhoek, (Nigeria), Yaound茅 (Nigeria), Nairobi (Kenya), Johannesburg (South Africa), and 25 June, 2016 in Addis Ababa (Ethiopia), Dar es Salaam (Tanzania).

Related stories:

Winners of the 2015 Short Story Day Africa Competition Announced

New Short Story Day Africa anthology Water launched 鈥?Plus 2016 theme and editing mentorship announced

Exclusive: Read Cat Hellisen鈥檚 鈥楾he Worme Bridge鈥? winner of the 2015 Short Story Day Africa Competition

About Short Story Day Africa

In the five years since inception, Short Story Day Africa has developed a survival ethos: to subvert and reclaim. Reclaim the place of the short story. Reclaim a space for non-conformist writing. Subvert ideas about what it means to be a writer in Africa. Subvert ideas about what makes a story African.

Using a variety of interventions, Short Story Day Africa brings together writers, readers, booksellers, publishers, teachers and school children from all over the globe to write, submit, read, workshop and discuss stories 鈥?and foster the love of reading and writing African fiction.

The Short Story Day Africa Prize and resulting anthology have become a highlight in the African literary calendar. Details of the prize can be found here.

Contact Rachel Zadok on +27 21 447 3731 for further details.

Book details

Feast, Famine and Potluck edited by Karen Jennings

Book homepage

EAN: 9780620588874

Find this book with BOOK Finder!"
"Performance Art: Dancing for your rights

Michikazu Matsune couldn't stop laughing when he read a story about an African-American dancer called Abdur Rahim Jackson who was asked to dance in order to prove he belonged to the Alvin Ailey company. Passport control officers at Tel Aviv's Ben Gurion airport made the request in 2008 and exposed how pervasive racial and cultural profiling remains.Yet it had Matsune in stitches; for not only was the incident completely absurd but ironic - the Ailey dance company challenges the prejudices surrounding African-American identity and some of the routines are derived from the slave era.Despite not having a Muslim name or being African-American, Japanese-born Matsune could, on some levels, identify with Jackson. Not only is constant travel a routine feature of a dancer's life, but around the time of Jackson's airport ''performance"" Matsune had travelled to 24 countries to perform his One Hour Standing For work. As the title suggests it involved the 43-year-old standing inert for an hour in front of major tourist sites around the world.Matsune said the video-work ""was a choreographic statement. I wanted to make a work where I was not moving at all but I could show how the world moved around me and that even these buildings in the background might also change"".Matsune' s ''standing still"" routine might not have gone down well with immigration officers. Matsune might have resisted dancing altogether, as he had reached a stage in his career where he had grown weary of contemporary dance - ""it had become too abstract and I wanted to say things with my art"".Jackson's story struck a chord with Matsune, haunted him even - and he began to secretly film and photograph border control personnel at entry points to different countries. He wanted to reverse the relationship - so that they were being scrutinised, rather than him.""They became such interesting portraits. Some are strict and some are friendly. Who has the right to survey you? You have no rights when you arrive at these desks.""These portraits will form part of Matsune's Dance If You Want to Enter My Country!, which will enjoy its South African debut this week at the Goethe-institut's Goethe-on-Main venue at Maboneng. The work more or less presents an imaginative restaging of what occurred to Jackson at Ben-Gurion airport with Matsune dancing significant and well-known routines from the Alvin Ailey repertoires. Matsune does not share Jackson's identity but this allows him to highlight debates around identity.""Where do I fit into this image and how do I disturb it? What expectations do I bring?"" asks the Vienna-based performance artist.'Dance If You Want To Enter My Country!' will be performed at Goethe-on-Main on Thursday (June 16) at 6pm and Sunday at 2pm. An exhibition of Matsune's work and performance programme including local artists will also be included..."
"19th Time of the Writer | 14 鈥?19 March 2016



The Centre for Creative Arts (UKZN) is proud to announce a change in venues and a special programme for the 19th Time of The Writer, which takes place from 14 to 19 March in Durban, under the theme Decolonising the Book.

A nationwide conversation on inclusiveness in the South African literature landscape began at the 2015 edition of Time of the Writer, sparked off by South African writer Thando Mgqolozana. In order to provide a platform for conversation and debate on this issue, this year鈥檚 edition of the festival will gather the leading voices from every facet of literature in the areas of writing, editing, publishing, translation, marketing, bookselling and promotion (including events), to deliberate on the salient issues pertinent to the transformation and growth of literature in South Africa. This theme aims to interrogate the central question of how to go about decolonising literature in South Africa, from writing to readership.

Conversations that Matter is a daytime programme of roundtable discussions, led by experts across the various fields of literature, that provides a space for people to share and contribute towards this vital topic. The nightly evening panels will then feature a summative discussion on the day鈥檚 deliberations.

The 19th edition of the festival is presented in partnership with the eThekwini Municipality Libraries department in whose libraries the day programme will take place.

This year鈥檚 edition of the festival features a shift in venue for the evening panels as each day the festival will take place in a different location across the surrounding areas of Durban; venues are located in Clermont, Cato Manor, Umlazi, Inanda and KwaMashu.

鈥淲e are very excited about the plans for this year鈥檚 festival, which came about as a result of a growing call from within the literary world and South Africa as whole for increased diversity, access and inclusiveness. The Centre for Creative Arts would like to acknowledge one of South Africa鈥檚 leading writers Thando Mgqolozana who has been very vocal about change in our society and has assisted in the programming of this edition of the festival,鈥?says Tiny Mungwe, festival manager at the Centre for Creative Arts. 鈥淭he change is very big for us and by breaking from years of tradition we will have another set of operational challenges, but it is something we believe is absolutely crucial for the festival and for the face of literature in South Africa if we are to effect some kind of shift in our thinking.鈥?
The line-up of writers and venues will be announced in a few weeks time.

All events FREE to library or student cardholders. For members of the public without either card, a nominal fee of R20 will be requested at the door one hour before the event.

For more details about this years鈥?Time of the Writer, visit the festival web page or call (031) 260 2506

Organised by the Centre for Creative Arts (University KwaZulu-Natal), the 19th Time of the Writer is supported by the City of Durban, the National Department of Arts and Culture, The Goethe-institut and the French Institute of South Africa. The Centre for Creative Arts is housed in the College of Humanities at the University of KwaZulu-Natal and is a special project of the Deputy Vice-Chancellor, Professor Cheryl Potgieter."
"

The Goethe-institut Johannesburg invites you to the next Beyond Borders event with Space: Currencies in Contemporary African Art editor Thembinkhosi Goniwe.

On Tuesday, 23 February the Market Theatre Laboratory will host a panel discussion on the topic 鈥淢aking Art Across Disciplines and Geographic Boundaries鈥? Speakers include Goniwe, James Ngcobo, Jyoti Mistry and Gregory Maqoma. The panel will be moderated by Mary Corrigall.

More about the event:

As part of Dance Umbrella 2016, the Goethe-institut is proud to support another edition of the Dance Writers Workshop led by Mary Corrigall. This year, the final session of the workshop will culminate in a panel discussion and open dialogue centered on the nature and politics of collaborations across disciplines and artists from different nations and cultural groups. Dancers, choreographers, visual artists, musicians, filmmakers, costume designers from South Africa and abroad will be on the panel but are also encouraged to attend. The event is open to the public and will introduce this year鈥檚 international artists and works that will be staged during Dance Umbrella 2016.

Admission is free and all are welcome. RSVP on Facebook.

See you there!

Event Details

Date : Tuesday, 23 February 2016

: Tuesday, 23 February 2016 Time : 5:30 PM for 6:00 PM

: 5:30 PM for 6:00 PM Venue : Market Theatre Laboratory

Inside Bus Factory

3 Helen Joseph Street

Johannesburg | Map

: Market Theatre Laboratory Inside Bus Factory 3 Helen Joseph Street Johannesburg | Map Moderator : Mary Corrigall

: Mary Corrigall Panelists : Thembinkosi Goniwe, James Ngcobo, Jyoti Mistry and Gregory Maqoma

: Thembinkosi Goniwe, James Ngcobo, Jyoti Mistry and Gregory Maqoma RSVP: Facebook event

Book Details

Space: Currencies in Contemporary African Art by Thembinkosi Goniwe

Book Homepage

EAN: 9781868886807

Find this book with BOOK Finder!

Image credit: REBELLION & JOHANNESBURG, choreographed by Jessica Nupen 漏 Steve Thomas"
"

Publishers from Nigeria, Ghana, Zimbabwe, Ivory Coast and Cameroon will be invited to this year鈥檚 South African Book Fair by the Goethe-institut, in co-operation with the SA Book Fair.

The South African Book Fair is South Africa鈥檚 largest book fair with over 100 authors participating in over 40 events throughout the three days. The fair is to be held at The Forum at Turbine Hall in Newtown, Johannesburg, from 31 July to 2 August, 2015.

鈥淭he aim of this initiative is to encourage business to business activities between publishers on the continent鈥?says Mpuka Radinku, executive director of The Publishers鈥?Association of South Africa. 鈥淭he South African Book Fair provides both an excellent promotional platform and great networking opportunities for publishers鈥?

Brigitte Doellgast, head of library & information services at the Goethe-institut Johannesburg, adds: 鈥淲e are happy to continue encouraging exchanges between information specialists and publishers from South Africa, sub-Saharan Africa and Germany. This ties in with our engagement in promoting literature and literacy via mobile devices 鈥?a topic that I am sure will be widely discussed at the Book Fair.鈥?
The seven publishers will be provided with exhibition stands within the South African Book Fair as well as workshops and networking opportunities including:

1) A workshop on the 30th of July to discuss issues around publishing on the internet, publishing free content, how to get content to people for free and how to help create a nation of readers. This workshop is open to both the publishers attending from Sub-Saharan Africa and local South African publishers interested in exploring these issues. Please RSVP at lic@johannesburg.goethe.org

The facilitators of the workshop will be Muthoni Muhunyo (Publishing and Business Development Associate at Worldreader in Kenya, http://www.worldreader.org/), Mignon Hardie (Executive Director at Fundza Literary Trust, http://www.fundza.co.za) and Ingo Niermann (writer from Germany, http://ingoniermann.com, founder of an initiative called FIKTION. 2) A session and networking event at 15h30 the 31st of July at the Turbine Hall on 鈥楶ublishing in Africa 鈥?the challenges and opportunities of trading books in the Global South鈥? The discussion will be followed by drinks and snacks.

We are excited to announce this year鈥檚 invited participants:

Les Editions Livre Sud represented by Therese Koudou, Ivory Coast

Les Editions Livre Sud have been based on the Ivory Coast since 1992. Apart from publishing various genres of books, they also provide library services in order to contribute to development by boosting literacy. Moreover, they produce material in local languages in order to participate in the development in a literate environment in Africa.

Subsaharan Publishers represented by Ofori-Mensah Akuosah, Ghana

Established in Ghana, Sub-Saharan Publishers focus on educational books, especially dealing with environmental issues, empowering women and the history of the transatlantic slave trade, amongst others. They publish children鈥檚 books to raise awareness about issues such as sustainable development as well as Children鈥檚 picture books in order to raise their interest in reading.

Bookcraft Limited represented by Bankole Olayebi, Nigeria

Bookcraft (represented by Bankole Olayebi) is a Nigerian publisher with titles in a wide variety of subject areas 鈥?literature, history, current affairs, biography and art. The company pays particular attention beautiful design and packaging, to ultimately achieve what are usually 鈥榬eader-friendly鈥?books. Publishing for more than twenty-five years, Bookcraft continues to consistently focus on excellence and quality, professionalism and customer service.

Editions Lupeppo represented by Hermann I Matchadj茅, Cameroon

Founded five years ago in Cameroon, Editions Lupeppo provides three collections: 鈥淪茅mences鈥?(novels, short stories, and poetry), 鈥淥pinions鈥?(essays) and 鈥淪avoirs鈥?(professional books).

amaBooks represented by Jane Morris, Zimbabwe

The Zimbabwean publisher amaBooks (represented by Jane Morris) focuses on novels, short stories and poetry, including a few local history and culture titles. They provide a platform for well-established as well as for emerging authors to publish their books.

Parresia Publishers represented by Azafi Omoluabi-Ogosi, Nigeria

Based in Nigeria, Parresia Publishers鈥?(represented by Azafi Omoluabi-Ogosi) emphasis lies on fiction; more precisely on literary fiction, exceptional popular fiction and innovative short story collections. They release books twice a year, including authors such as Helon Habila.

Shama Books represented by Asfeha Deribe, Ethiopia

Ethiopia鈥檚 premier private publisher and the best source for high-quality, fascinating books on all things Ethiopia. Whether you鈥檙e looking for a book in English or Amharic, Shama has a vast selection to choose from and offers many genres to suit your diverse tastes."
"The community responded to the death by looting the shop and assaulting the owners. (Thulani Mbele/Timeslive)

The Goethe-institut has invited seven publishers from sub-Saharan Africa to be part of this year鈥檚 South African Book Fair. Everyone who is interested in the African literature scene is invited to visit their stands, which will be in the basement of the Turbine Hall in Johannesburg.

The publishers will be happy to take you on a literature tour, both literally and figuratively, as they present their multilingual 颅collections. Genres ranging from fiction to educational children鈥檚 books will be available to browse through. This is a great opportunity to buy books written by fellow Africans that are not always available in South Africa.

The publishers, listed below, look forward to your visit.

Sub-Saharan Publishers: Established in Ghana, sub-Saharan publish children鈥檚 books to raise awareness about issues such as sustainable development as well as picture books in order to raise youngsters鈥?interest in reading.

Bookcraft Limited: With more than 25 years in the publishing industry, Bookcraft is a Nigerian publisher with titles in a wide variety of subject areas. The company pays particular attention to beautiful design and packaging to 颅achieve 鈥渞eader-friendly鈥?books.

amaBooks: This Zimbabwean publisher focuses on novels, short stories and poetry, including a few local history and culture titles. They provide a platform for well-established as well as emerging authors to publish their books.

Parr茅sia: Based in Nigeria, Parresia emphasises fiction, and more precisely literary fiction, exceptional popular fiction and innovative short story collections.

Les Editions Livre Sud: Based in C么te d鈥橧voire since 1992, Livre Sud publishes a wide range of books and also provides library services that contribute to development by boosting literacy. They also produce material in local languages, taking part in developing a literate environment in Africa.

Editions Lupeppo: Founded five years ago in Cameroon, Editions Lupeppo provides three collections: 鈥淪茅mences鈥?(novels, short stories and poetry), 鈥淥pinions鈥?(essays) and 鈥淪avoirs鈥?(professional books).

Shama Books: Shama plc is Ethiopia鈥檚 largest book publisher and distributor, providing a wide range of books to schools and the public at large. Shama has published more than 300 books.

Sine Buthelezi works at the Goethe-institut in Johannesburg. The Goethe-institut is the global cultural arm of the Federal Republic of Germany. The institute鈥檚 library and information department works in partnership with libraries and other bodies involved in book and reading promotion in South Africa. It also encourages exchanges between information specialists and publishers in South Africa, sub-Saharan Africa and Germany"
"Gamescom. Though not as prestigious as E3, the German trade show is the largest gaming event in the world, attracting more than 300,000 visitors from around the world annually, including thousands of press and hundreds of game developers.

Their backgrounds were diverse; some were interested in games as entertainment, others, as tools to educate, to create art or to preserve African cultural heritage.

This year, thanks to the support and sponsorship of the Goethe-institut, a German non-profit seeking to promote cultural exchange and build relationships between Germany and the rest of the world, 15 game developers from around Africa packed their bags and headed for the historic city of Cologne.

These developers came from all corners of the African continent, from Nigeria, Kenya, Ivory Coast, Senegal, Togo and South Africa. Their backgrounds were diverse; some were interested in games as entertainment, others, as tools to educate, to create art or to preserve African cultural heritage. Some saw games as a path to empowerment for women. But all shared a burning passion for the art and craft of game development. And a hunger to exchange ideas, meet with industry contacts and discuss the unique challenges facing the African continent.

Gamescom proved the perfect opportunity for this. Developers from around the world flocked to the trade show, looking to promote their games and companies, their countries and tech services. And, of course, the fans themselves came in their tens of thousands, the enormous conference centre packed to capacity with gamers eager to catch a glimpse of the Next Big Thing, and to celebrate games and gaming culture.

The expo itself was an almost overwhelming experience, as the major players in the industry sought to outdo each other with spectacle. All the biggest next gen games were on display, fans queuing for hours for even a taste of their favourites. Popular YouTube celebrities took autographs, cosplayers arrived in their thousands, and e-sport events were broadcast in front of live audiences.

But it wasn鈥檛 all about the AAA industry. The Indie Arena booth packed in dozens of exciting and innovative offerings from indie developers. The booth was constantly buzzing with gamers excited to try something a little different, showing that Indie games have truly coming into their own.

The African developers eagerly tried out the games on offer, both AAA and Indie, drawing inspiration from the creativity on display and taking notes of the tactics developers used to stand out in that crowded space.

They discussed the unique challenges facing African game development in terms of government and industry support, legal obstacles and the difficulty of getting payment structures in place.

Back in the Gamescom business area, the African delegates networked with international developers, making new contacts, reaching out to publishers, discussing potential opportunities to promote and market African games internationally.

And at Respawn, one of the satellite events surrounding Gamescom, the African delegation gave a panel talk on the African game development scene. They discussed the unique challenges facing African game development in terms of government and industry support, legal obstacles and the difficulty of getting payment structures in place. They talked about the vibrant and rapidly growing games culture on the continent, particularly around mobile gaming, where technology providers have leapfrogged over traditional line-based technologies for mobile.

The panel discussed the exciting opportunities for promoting African culture in gaming, and the need to do so, as young Africans grow up consuming primarily Western digital content, weakening their connection to their culture. There is a large gap in the market for quality African digital content, and these African developers are eager to fill that gap.

The talk was well-received, with international developers eager to learn about the African gaming scene, and the opportunities for bringing their products to an African audience, making them contextually relevant.

Outside the expo, away from the crowds and the noise, developers and fans alike socialized over beer and bratwurst, talking shop and getting to know each other at the many parties that sprung up around Cologne. New friendships were formed, both with international developers and between the African delegates, as they shared their experiences and ideas.

At the end of the conference, the developers from Africa left happy and exhausted, with new contacts and friendships made, new ideas shared, and a rekindled sense of the exciting possibilities in growing the African gaming scene.

Click through to the next page to find out more about the developers."
"Parts of the Western world are gripped by a crisis of strangers. Men, women and children 鈥?collectively we describe them as civilians, citizens and humans 鈥?are fleeing violence, poverty and competing definitions of sovereignty in Syria, Iraq, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Libya, Eritrea, Somalia and other states.

Some are seeking refuge in Europe; others are placing their hopes in refugee settlements such as Za鈥檃tari in northern Jordan and Dadaab in northeastern Kenya.

These movements 鈥?some small and unrecognised, others highly visible and epochal in character 鈥?are of interest to artists. This makes perfect sense. The stranger is, after all, a recurring figure in paintings, films and novels.

This recurrence is particularly noticeable in contemporary art. In his recent book, The Migrant Image (2013), art historian TJ Demos offers a timely look at how 鈥渄ocumentary engagement鈥?with the subject of migrancy is refiguring artistic practice and theoretical debate.

He describes the refugee as a 鈥渞epressed figure of the last century鈥檚 otherwise celebrated glorious nationalisms, utopian political projects and vaunted technological achievements鈥? Like many writers grappling with the slippery subject of homelessness, Demos endorses the 鈥渋nsistently political鈥?analysis of migrancy offered by exiled Palestinian literary critic Edward Said.

鈥淥ur age,鈥?reads a passage from Said鈥檚 well-known 1984 essay on exile, 鈥渨ith its modern warfare, imperialism and the quasi-theological ambitions of totalitarian rulers 鈥?is indeed the age of the refugee, the displaced person, mass migration.鈥?
Prominent role

Many of the artists discussed by Demos 鈥?including Steve McQueen, Mona Hatoum and Hito Steyerl 鈥?use the camera to produce still and moving images. Still photography in particular has played a prominent role in shaping our collective recognition 鈥?I hesitate to say understanding 鈥?of displacement, migration and exile.

Whether one looks at the grim photographs produced by Gilles Peress in 1994 Rwanda or the on-the-move work of Iranian documentary photographer Abbas [Attar] in Serbia a year later, it is hard to refute what critic Lyle Rexer calls the 鈥渇actitious insistence鈥?of a photograph.

But photographs are silent, or at least they tend to operate in a way that both invites and rebuffs language. In his startling biography of Somali refugee Asad Abdullahi, whose miserable wanderings lead him to Cape Town, writer Jonny Steinberg renders in words what is not always communicable in a photograph.



A portrait by Yto Barrada from her long-term essay A Life Full of Holes: The Strait Project.

鈥淎 refugee has lost control,鈥?offers Steinberg in A Man of Good Hope (2014). 鈥淕reat historical forces have upended him and he no longer has a place in the world. He has become an in-between sort of being, suspended between a past in which he belonged somewhere and a future in which he might belong somewhere once more.鈥?
Documentary photographer James Nachtwey has observed much the same thing. 鈥淩efugees are not only sequestered in space,鈥?wrote Nachtwey in a short essay accompanying photographs he took in the Za鈥檃tari refugee camp in 2013, 鈥渢hey are incarcerated in time, walled in between a past that鈥檚 been obliterated and a future that no longer exists.鈥?
Notion of time

This notion of time interests me. Is it possible for an artist to show or visualise what it means to be a refugee incarcerated in time? I have my doubts.

In 1998, after a wilderness period that included working as a news photographer in Palestine, Moroccan-French artist Yto Barrada began her long-term photographic essay A Life Full of Holes: The Strait Project (1998-2004). Widely exhibited, it is a work of quotidian splendour.

Barrada鈥檚 essay records facets of everyday life in northern Morocco, a place she has described as 鈥渢he destination and jumping-off point of a thousand hopes鈥? People are pictured waiting, seated, doing nothing; in many instances we observe them from behind.

One portrait compels. It presents a young man leaning against a broken wall overlooking a small flock of sheep. The grassy landscape around him is littered with the flotsam of modern consumer life. But it is his prospect that intrigues: a Mediterranean beach in North Africa.

It is a place of pleasure and estrangement, as Albert Camus re-cognised. The Algerian-born French novelist often sought gratification in the Mediterranean, but he also made it the site of a murder in his celebrated 1942 novel, The Outsider (also known as The Stranger).

Great argument

This fictional murder has been a source of great argument among scholars. Possibly the most elegant retort to Camus鈥檚 Orientalist tendencies is offered by Algerian journalist and writer Kamel Daoud, whose debut novel, The Meursault Investigation (2013), retells Camus鈥檚 novel from the perspective of the anonymous Arab murdered on the beach.

鈥淚f the sea and war separate the two countries, we remain neighbours bound to one another by a common sense of grief, denial and unease,鈥?said Daoud in an interview in June.



Artist Serge Alain Nitigeka delivered 100 wooden stools to a site outside the Refugee Reception Centre in Pretoria.

This unease is registered in Barrada鈥檚 photographs. It also figured in a work created by Francis Al每s, a Belgian-born artist who studied architecture and engineering. In 2008 Al每s got a group of children holding sailboats to form a human line extending into the sea. The project formed part of a speculative proposal to build a bridge across the Strait of Gibraltar using hundreds of boats and followed a 2006 project where the artist lined up 150 boats from Key West, Florida, in the direction of Havana in Cuba.

Whimsical in conception, Al每s鈥檚 projects are a meditation on meaninglessness and aspiration. In 2002, for instance, Al每s and 500 volunteers formed a line along a massive sand dune in Peru and began shovelling. Their aim: to move the dune. There is an ethical imperative to his work. When he exhibited his quixotic human bridge project at the Marrakech Biennale in 2009, it included a strident question: 鈥淗ow can one at the same time promote global economy and limit the movement of people around the globe?鈥?
Walls and barriers

Right now, walls and barriers are being erected in Hungary to stem the flow of refugees from the east. This is unsurprising. Walls and barriers are a correlative of migratory passages. This fact has in turn sponsored an open-ended type of artistic practice in which border towns such as Tijuana, Melilla and Musina are locales for speculative thinking, and also action.

Starting in 2009, United States-born South African artist Thenjiwe Niki Nkosi organised a series of art projects in close proximity to the formerly electrified fence on South Africa鈥檚 northern border with Zimbabwe. Her collaborators were chiefly farm labourers in the Musina region, many of them migrants from southern Zimbabwe.

Nkosi helped locals to establish a theatre group. 鈥淭he idea of creating an arts network emerged from conversations that a group of Johannesburg-based artists had with young artists in Musina, who said they felt isolated in terms of access to information and opportunities, and sorely lacked an organised arts community,鈥?says Nkosi of her project.

Equal parts civic action and collaborative performance, the project culminated in an arts festival. Hospitality is an important facet of addressing the crisis that exists among strangers, for artists as much as citizens and governments.

In December 2011, Serge Alain Nitegeka, an athletic Burundian artist living and working in Johannesburg, hired a truck to deliver 100 handmade pine stools to a site on an open plot of land just west of Pretoria鈥檚 city centre. Nitegeka, who was 11 when he fled his homeland with his family, first to Rwanda, then Congo, later Kenya and finally South Africa, wanted to give the queuing refugees something practical: a chair.

Simple act of hospitality

As in Musina, groups of foreign migrants stand in queues outside the local Refugee Reception Centre from early in the morning. His simple act of hospitality initially angered local security officials. After a standoff, Nitegeka was allowed to distribute his chairs. 鈥淚t was a small attempt at giving significance to the asylum seekers 鈥?to humanise them, to give them a bit of dignity,鈥?Nitegeka later told Voice of America.

But refugees are not only sequestered in space, as Nachtwey observed: they are also incarcerated in time. What exactly does it mean to be incarcerated in time?



Isaac Julian鈥檚 Western Union Series No 9 (Shipwreck 鈥?Sculpture for the New Millennium), 2007.

I first met Phillip Chikumbo on September 8 2003. It was a Monday. He was wearing a blue-and-white checked shirt and squatting among a tangle of roots from the wild fig tree that grew in the middle of the prison courtyard at the Musina police station. His dark eyes were bloodshot.

鈥淚 haven鈥檛 eaten for two days,鈥?he said. 鈥淭hey do not have food for us because we are unexpected visitors.鈥?
Then 24, Phillip had been arrested for illegally entering South Africa from Zimbabwe, where he was born and raised. Later that day, Mail & Guardian chief photographer Paul Botes and I met Phillip again outside the Beitbridge Inn and Casino in Zimbabwe. Together we walked to Dulibadzimo, a township on the outskirts of Beitbridge, where we hired a sky-blue Datsun 120Y.

Bubble of light

The sun was setting when we stopped near a large baobab in a landscape without fencing. Guided by moonlight, we walked into the parched landscape. We followed a network of footpaths carved into the earth by cigarette smugglers and locals intent on bypassing the congested border administration at Beitbridge. Our destination was the bubble of light on the horizon: Musina, a place Steinberg characterises as 鈥渢he most coveted destination on the continent鈥?

We talked about many things during our walk towards the light: family, politics, the crocodiles potentially waiting for us in the oily green Limpopo River, the electric fence on the other end, interracial sex, the untimely death of a footballer Lesley 鈥淪low Poison鈥?Manyathela on a road nearby, and Hustler magazine.

Crossing the border proved easy enough. The rains hadn鈥檛 arrived yet and the river was in abeyance. We crawled beneath the fence on our bellies like warthogs and hitched a lift with a passing truck. It is that easy to circumvent bureaucracy.

Easy is the wrong word. Shortly after we said goodbye to Phillip in Musina, he was arrested and deported. Once again he returned.

I met Phillip a year or so later. He was living in Durban and had acquired a new Zulu name. His plan reminded me of the Mozambican machine operator who had worked at my father鈥檚 factory in Pretoria. Everyone knew this man, who after work wore a plaid jacket and preached fire and brimstone on the train, as Mario. His pay cheque, however, named him Patrick Mamba.

Numerous numbers

I forget what Phillip鈥檚 Zulu name was. He is back to being Phillip. I have three numbers on my phone for him. Had I kept all the others, the list would run to 10, 12, possibly more.

Phillip usually calls at night or on weekends. Actually, there is no pattern. He calls when he feels like it.

鈥淚t鈥檚 me, Phillip,鈥?he will say. Mostly he phones just to say hello.

Once, in 2008, he called to express fear. They 鈥?meaning us, South Africans 鈥?were killing people. He was afraid. He said he loved me. I didn鈥檛 know what to do with those words.



Don鈥檛 Cross the Bridge Before You Get to the River by Francis Al每s.

Normally, though, our conversations are more benign. Phillip will ask how I am and then, on occasion, press me for money or some form of assistance, a job even. I am a writer, I tell him: I don鈥檛 employ people.

Phillip believes I have the power to help him. I doubt his faith. A while ago he sent me a handwritten note. His autobiography-in-progress is transcribed in neat capital letters on 13 loose sheets.

鈥淲hen we are born,鈥?it begins, 鈥渆verybody鈥檚 thought is to be free and happy during our term of living. We expect to enjoy the so-called fruits of [life].鈥?
Zanu-PF thugs

Frustrated by the lack of opportunity in Zimbabwe and the routine beatings administered by Zanu-PF thugs in the 鈥渞ural area鈥?where he spent his adolescence, Phillip decided to head for South Africa sometime in 2002.

Along the way he met a group of six other young travellers, four of them women.

Arriving at Beitbridge, they hired a guide to lead them across the border.

鈥淲e couldn鈥檛 suspect something might be wrong with the guy who was supposed to take us into South Africa,鈥?writes Phillip.

After a 3km walk, which included his first river crossing, Phillip heard a loud whistle. Two men suddenly joined the group.

鈥淲e kept on going and not far from us appeared what seems to be about 20-something men wearing junk clothes and holding sharp pangas and sjamboks. We could feel we were in danger. We were told to strip everything we were wearing and surrender everything we were in possession of. Guma guma they were.鈥?
Confidence tricksters

Phillip is describing his first encounter with the confidence tricksters, thieves and outlaws who operate in this liminal zone.

鈥淭hey took everything we had and told us to go and work in South Africa and buy other clothes and cellphones. That was really bad experience, even to notice the girls we were with being raped in full view of ourselves.鈥?
Not long after this harrowing ordeal, South African police arrested the group of ragged travellers. This was before I met Phillip.



A taxi in which Phillip and Sean O鈥橳oole travelled to a secluded point on the border between Zimbabwe and South Africa and walked into this country. (Paul Botes, M&G)

Phillip is not alone in his aspiration to find a better marketplace for his youth. In 2007, I met a 52-year-old truck driver named Cheick Osman Coulibaly in Kayes, a market town in eastern Mali.

Fluent in English, Spanish and French, Coulibaly told me about his first love, a tall teenager named Fatoumata Demb茅l茅. We also spoke about his two wives and eight children, as well as his three clandestine trips to Europe, first in 1978 and again in 1982 and 1983.

鈥淚 hid in the caves of the ship,鈥?he said of his first trip from Dakar. It was aboard a Greek ship bound for Le Havre. He lived off caffeine-rich kola nuts during the passage.

鈥楩rench are racists鈥?
He liked Germany and Spain, but hated France. Despite his proficiency in French, he said, he was unable to find work. 鈥淚 was really surprised.鈥?Surprise soon matured into wisdom. 鈥淭he French are racists,鈥?said Coulibaly without bitterness.

Around this time I also met some of the young Senegalese men who had braved the watery passage to the Canary Islands. They included Assane Fall, a fisherman born in 1982. In 2006 he made two attempts to reach Spain鈥檚 island territory. A hurricane thwarted his first attempt and Spanish authorities detained him on arrival on his second. Fall spent a month and half in a military camp in Las Palmas before being flown back to Dakar. He met other men like himself, from Morocco, Mauritania, Gambia and Mali.

鈥淚 know they don鈥檛 want me,鈥?he said. 鈥淚鈥檒l do whatever I have to do 鈥?harvest grapes, whatever.鈥?
These stories, recounted in a jocular fashion and filled with bravado, do not in any way chime with London-born artist Isaac Julien鈥檚 film Western Union: Small Boats (2007). The final instalment of a trilogy of audiovisual film installations, Western Union employs metaphor and ellipsis to tell the story of a fictional boat journey from Africa to Europe. It eschews documentary description in favour of an operatic imagination of the bare life. The film is partly a conversation with Italian director Luchino Visconti鈥檚 Sicilian landscapes and implicitly critiques what Julien has described as the 鈥渟tereotypical mode of exploring these questions of migration鈥?

The film鈥檚 baroque pageantry however, is counterbalanced by Julien鈥檚 acute sense of landscape and setting. His film includes documentary footage of abandoned wooden boats used by African migrants to reach Europe.

Boating graveyards

Julien has also photographed these boating graveyards. He views these leftover husks as a kind of sculptural archetype for the new millennium. It is a potent idea, one that supplants Vladimir Tatlin鈥檚 unrealised Bolshevik monument from 1919 as a metaphor of unfulfilled potential.

But the Mediterranean鈥檚 shipping graveyards are far away from Cape Town, where I live. I only know Phillip鈥檚 story; know it in a sense that it possesses the rectitude of truth.

I have told Phillip鈥檚 story countless times, in various versions, to different people. It is never a resolved telling, in part because his biography lacks a sustained trajectory or narrative arc. Phillip鈥檚 story is one of perpetual beginnings, of taking on new jobs with erratic bosses in various parts of South Africa. His biography is one of perpetual reset.



Many migrants and traders cross the border legally at Beit Bridge. (Paul Botes, M&G)

As a result, my own telling of his story tends towards randomness. I met Phillip, and then 鈥?I met his younger brother, Wellington, who fell out a tree and died. It was a risk. Wellington felled suburban trees, which is one of those mysterious occupations announced in hand-lettered signage by young men at traffic intersections in Gauteng鈥檚 prosperous suburbs.

Phillip once mentioned that his family had read the article I had written about him in this paper in 2003. It had been republished in Zimbabwe. 鈥淚t鈥檚 very obvious: I can鈥檛 live in that place of Mugabe any more,鈥?I quoted Phillip.

Hurt and angered

His father had been hurt and angered, he later learned. I only discovered this much later, in between the fear elicited by the xenophobic violence of 2008 and the death of his brother in late 2011.

Phillip said he would never return home. But Phillip has gone home. He has visited his parents on a number of occasions. South Africa is home, or something approaching a version of home. Phillip is still suspended between a past that鈥檚 been obliterated and a future that is perpetually starting.

He remains a man on the cusp of becoming a demobilised civilian, a citizen, a human in a land increasingly frightened and angered by strangers from elsewhere.

Until he achieves that end, which isn鈥檛 really an end but a moment in his life journey, all I can reasonably do is describe the milestones of his interminable journey.

This is an edited version of a keynote talk presented at the Spaces of Displacement conference hosted by the Goethe-institut in Lagos, Nigeria."
"

Alert! Cape-Town based Nikhil Singh鈥檚 debut novel Taty Went West is being launched as part of the 2015 Kwani? Litfest, taking place in Nairobi, Kenya from 1 to 6 December.

Taty Went West, which was longlisted for the 2013 Kwani? Manuscript Project, is described by Lauren Beukes as 鈥渁 hallucinogenic post-apocalyptic carnival ride鈥?

The novel is the first to be published by Kwani Trust that blurs and crosses the boundaries of genre and literary fiction, and also the first novel it has published from South Africa.

Singh was recently hosted by Kwani Trust in Nairobi for the opening of the Goethe-institut鈥檚 African Futures Festival, where he appeared in conversation with Zukiswa Wanner alongside Tony Mochama, Richard Oduor Oduku, Awuor Onyango and Karsten Kruschel.

While in Kenya, Singh spoke to The Star about his creative projects, the 13 books he is writing at once, and re-imagining the heroines of sci-fi:

One of the thing that irritated the hell out me with the sci-fi I watched was that they all came with a male protagonist who is very similar to the others, in a formulaic thing that kinda works. You do not really get female characters in science fiction, that were not over-sexualised. For me, I am much more about the concept of gender fluidity in terms of the stereotypes of gender, which at the end of the day break into social perceptions. Another thing they do in sci-fi and fantasy is trying to push a masculine stereotype that says force is equal to strength, whereas it isn鈥檛. I really wanted a real girl, someone not so outstanding. Complete article: The Star

Billy Kahora, managing editor of Kwani Trust, says: 鈥淎t a time when the African story is undergoing a renaissance through the blurring of literary and genre fiction, Kwani Trust is delighted to be part of bringing Taty 鈥?a new kind of literary African heroine 鈥?into the world.

鈥淪avvy, ultra-modern, Taty straddles the mediated realities of our own continent and the groundbreaking possibilities of our ongoing universal imaginaries.

鈥淲ith chapter heading illustrations that match the beauty and imagination of its prose, Nikhil Singh鈥檚 Taty Went West is exactly the kind of boundary shifting novel that Kwani Trust has been looking for to build its literary fiction list.鈥?
Taty Went West is published in paperback with 50 illustrations and priced at KSh 1200 (about R170). It is available in bookshops across Nairobi and to order at Kwani.

About the book

Taty is a troubled adolescent living with her equally troubled mother in the suburbs of the Lowlands. In a moment of uncontrolled anger she finds her life changed forever and, hiding a terrible secret, she becomes a runaway, heading West into the Outzone. When she is captured by a malicious imp, befriended by an evangelising robotic nun and wooed by a transgender hoodlum, it soon becomes clear that this is no ordinary adventure story.

With moustachioed wrestlers, marauding Buddhist Punks, a feline voodoo surgeon and the enigmatic presence of the disfigured Dr Dali, Nikhil Singh has created a unique universe and a heroine whose petulant nonchalance hides a mighty spirit. As Taty navigates the collapse of an already chaotic society, struggling against present danger while confronting the demons of her own past, her story is narrated in prose that soars with elegance and swagger in equal measure. Taty Went West is an introduction to an electrifying new talent 鈥?an imagination unfettered by any known convention.

About the author

Nikhil Singh is a Cape Town based artist, writer, musician and filmmaker. He has fronted the critically acclaimed South African art-rock bands The Wild Eyes and Hi Spider, as well as a plethora of solo albums under the moniker 鈥淲itchboy鈥?(released on Aural Sects). He has illustrated graphic novels: The Ziggurat (Bell Roberts 2003) by The Constructus Corporation (part of which evolved into Die Antwoord) and Salem Brownstone with writer John Harris Dunning (Walker Books 2009). His short fiction has been published by Jungle Jim and Chimurenga. Taty Went West is his first novel and was longlisted for the Kwani? Manuscript Project.

About the Kwani? Manuscript Project

The Kwani? Manuscript Project was launched in April 2012 and called for the submission of unpublished novel manuscripts from African writers across the continent and in the diaspora. The prize received over 280 qualifying submissions from 19 African countries. Nikhil Singh鈥檚 Taty Went West was identified by Kwani? as one of the most exciting manuscripts submitted for the prize from a longlist of 30.

The winners were selected by a high-profile panel of judges chaired by award-winning Sudanese novelist Jamal Mahjoub and including former deputy editor of Granta magazine Ellah Wakatama Allfrey, leading scholar of African literature Professor Simon Gikandi, Chairman of Kenyatta University鈥檚 Literature Department Dr Mbugua wa Mungai, editor of Zimbabwe鈥檚 Weaver Press Irene Staunton and internationally renowned Nigerian writer Helon Habila.

Taty Went West is the third novel to be published in the Kwani? Manuscript Project series, following Boy, Interrupted by Saah Millimono (February 2015) and Jennifer Makumbi鈥檚 Kintu (June 2014). eBook editions of the first two novels in the series will also be launched at 2015 Kwani? Litfest.

Allfrey has worked closely with each of the writers to develop and fulfill the literary promise the prize identified in their writing. Kwani Trust plans to publish three further novels coming out of the Kwani? Manuscript Project in 2016.

The Kwani? Manuscript Project has been made possible with the support of Ford Foundation, Lambent Foundation, Commonwealth Writers and Stichting Doen. The project was initiated by the Prince Claus Award to Kwani Trust in 2010.

About 2015 Kwani? Litfest

The fifth edition of Kwani? Litfest, a biennial gathering of writers, artists and thinkers from across Africa, takes place from 1 鈥?6 December, 2015. This year鈥檚 literary festival, Beyond the Map of English: Writers in conversation on Language, hosts readings, performances and discussions that explore issues of language and how this relates to African experiences and writing on the continent. Confirmed participants include Nuruddin Farah, Taiye Selasi, Boris Boubacar Diop, Yvonne Adhiambo Owour, Wu Ming, Prof. Aldin Mutembei, FOKN Bois and Siphiwo Mahala.

For further information about 2015 Kwani? Litfest see kwanilitfest.tumblr.com

Follow Kwani on Twitter: @kwanitrust

Join Kwani on Facebook: Facebook.com/kwanitrust

Author image courtesy of Sarah Such Literary Agency"
"The Long Story Short 芒鈧€?African Literature Goes Digital project will feature celebrities who will read excerpts from material by writers from Africa and those who have left the continent. (Oupa Nkosi, M&G)

The Long Story Short 芒鈧€?African Literature Goes Digital project, launched by arts and culture entrepreneur Kgauhelo Dube, will host a series of events at which celebrities will read excerpts from material by writers from Africa and those who have left the continent.

Curated by award-winning writer Yewande Omotoso, the initiative has been endorsed by, among others, poet laureate Keorapetse Kgositsile.

Kgositsile, special adviser to Arts and Culture Minister Nathi Mthethwa, said the initiative had the potential to promote a culture of reading and writing.

芒鈧揝outh Africa is confronted with the challenges of illiteracy. These challenges call for robust interventions to get South Africans to read; that is the only way to develop an informed society.芒鈧?
Dube said the presentations would be packaged into free downloads to reach a mass audience. Her events management company, Kajeno Media, is in discussions with cellphone network providers to iron out the details of working together.

The arts and culture ministry will contribute funds through its Mzansi Golden Economy programme. The Goethe-institut has committed funds towards events costs and marketing.

The inaugural Long Story Short project is at Centurion芒鈧劉s Olievenhoutbosch Library, south of Pretoria, on March 27. At the event TV soapie personality Hlubi Mboya, known for her roles in SABC芒鈧劉s Isidingo and eTV芒鈧劉s Rhythm City, will read Niq Mhlongo芒鈧劉s short story, eGoliwood Drama."
"HHP will be performing at the inaugural Ancestral Collective Difaqane-Mfecane Music Festival at Thaba-Bosiu in Maseru

MASERU

Rapper HHP and musicians Thandiswa Mazwai, Phuzekhemisi, Tsepo Tshola and Mantsa will be among those performing at the first ever Ancestral Collective Difaqane-Mfecane Music Festival. It also features other artists from Lesotho and South Africa. Themed around heritage, culture and tradition, the festival aims to pay tribute to history and to celebrate different cultures. The name of the festival comes from the words difaqane (or lifaqane) and mfecane, which refers to a period of 鈥渨idespread chaos and disturbance in Southern Africa鈥?between 1815 and 1840. WHEN May 2 from 2pm 鈥?10pm WHERE Thaba Bosiu, Maseru. INFO Tickets cost R150 to R200 via Computicket, Shoprite Checkers and at the gate. Visit ancestralcollective.com and follow @LifaqaneMfecane on Twitter.

Giveaway

The M&G Friday and Ancestral Collective are giving away two double tickets to the Lifaqane-Mfecane Music Festival on Saturday, May 2, at Thaba-Bosiu, in Maseru, Lesotho.

To win, like M&G Friday鈥檚 Facebook page (if you haven鈥檛 already) and share this post on Facebook.

*Tickets are only for entry into Lifaqane-Mfecane Music Festival and do not cover accommodation, meals and transportation.

JOHANNESBURG

Thenx, a sketch comedy group made up of four actresses, presents The Triple M Mammas, a show about the lives of four women who run a stokvel that caters for the community. It is a satirical production inspired by shows such as The Pure Monate Show and Late Night News with Loyiso Gola. WHEN May 1 to 2 at 8pm and May 3 at 3:30pm. WHERE Pop Art (Maboneng). COST Online (R80) and at the door (R95). INFO Visit popartcentre.co.za

Athol Fugard鈥檚 1968 play, People Are Living There, returns to the stage. The play, directed by Andr茅 Odendaal and known as 鈥渙ne of only two Fugard plays that do not concern apartheid or township life鈥? tells the story of four downtrodden people living in the centre of Johannesburg. The 50-year-old landlady Milly and her lodgers Don, Shorty and Sissy, deal with the isolation and frustration in their lives. The cast includes Anna-Mart van der Merwe, Carel Nel, Dania Gelderblom and Francois Jacobs. WHEN Until May 24, Tuesdays to Saturdays at 8.15pm and Sundays at 3.30pm. WHERE The Market Theatre. INFO Tickets available at Computicket.

The authors Helon Habila (Nigeria) and Nthikeng Mohlele (South Africa) will share their texts and let readers take part in a discussion about their writing routines at the conversational Literary Crossroads: From Faction to Fiction session. Habila is an associate professor of creative writing at George Mason University in the United States and Mohlele has published two novels, The Sense of Bliss (2008) and Small Things (2014). WHEN May 7 at 7pm. WHERE Goethe-institut, 119 Jan Smuts Avenue, Parkwood. COST Free. INFO Visit goethe.de/johannesburg

The recently launched Mzansi Music Ensemble is a 22-piece band that will pay tribute to the late composer, band leader and bassist Victor Ntoni. The band will be joined on stage by acts such as poet and singer Jessica Mbangeni, saxophonist and mentor Barney Rachabane and saxophonist Sisonke Xonti, and will be conducted by musical director Prince Lengoasa. Ntoni mentored some of the artists who make up the ensemble, an initiative of his that was founded by Gauteng Music Development. The ensemble, which aims to promote awareness of 鈥減roudly South African鈥?music, incorporates poetry, praise singing and improvisation. WHEN May 6 to 9 at 8pm. WHERE The Market Theatre. INFO Tickets are available via Computicket or visit gautengmusicdev.co.za

CAPE TOWN

Acclaimed choreographer and producer Glenda Jones, who brought audiences Raw Silk in 2013, is back with a dance production titled Cinnamon. Jones is known for founding the dance company Afrika Ablaze. The dance production is fused with drama and music. WHEN April 28 to May 2 at 8pm. WHERE The Baxter Theatre. INFO Tickets range from R70 to R100. Visit www.baxter.co.za

Described as 鈥渁 night of classic NYC cabaret鈥? the Robin Botha: Live at Parlour Songs show promises to take audiences on a musical journey to New York City. Botha, who won the 2012 Fleur du Cap award for the best actress in a musical, is an esteemed soprano who has starred in the theatre musical, Phantom of the Opera. She will be joined on stage by special guest musicians, as well as a New York musical director, Drew Rienstra, on the piano. WHEN May 7 at 7pm. WHERE Play Club, Miao, 20 Jarvis Street. INFO General admission is R80 and 25-year-olds and under R40 via quicket.co.za

Emily Child stars in the 2015 Fleur du Cap award-winning play, The Pervert Laura, which follows 鈥?0-year-old Laura through a week in her life鈥? Laura, 鈥渋n conversations with her therapist, reveals herself to be a woman on the road to absolute self-annihilation鈥? The play is described as an 鈥渦ncomfortable journey into the dark heart of a woman鈥檚 past鈥? Playwright Louis Viljoen received the Fleur du Cap theatre best new director award for his work on this production that premiered in December last year. WHEN May 6 to 23 at 8pm from Tuesday to Thursday. WHERE The Fugard Studio Theatre. INFO Tickets cost R130 via thefugard.com. The Pervert Laura contains explicit language and nudity.

The artistic director and choreographer of the Royal Moscow Ballet Theatre鈥檚 The Crown of the Russian Ballet, Anatoly Emelianov, has put together 鈥渁 special programme for South Africa devoted to Russian composer Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky, with 2015 marking the 175th anniversary his birth. WHEN May 6 at 7.30pm. WHERE The Baxter Theatre. INFO Tickets range from R150 to R280 via Computicket. Visit baxter.co.za

DURBAN

International hip-hop artist Rick Ross will headline the second annual Youth Hip-Hop Festival, which features the finest of local music acts such as Khuli Chana, Casper Nyovest, Cashtime Fam, Dream Team, Kwesta, and DJs Tira and C-Live. The MCs will be Mzokoloko and Scoop Makhathini. WHEN May 2. WHERE Moses Mabhida Stadium, People鈥檚 Park East. INFO Tickets cost R380 and R800 for VIP. Follow @youthhiphopfest on Twitter.

UMHLANGA"
"Cape Town - Last week Tuesday German DJs Schlachthofbronx played a live set at Kong Club in Rosebank, Joburg as part of their tour through Sub-Saharan Africa.

The event was hosted and organised by the Goethe-institut. Benjamin Keuffel, PR officer at the institute, said: ""The Goethe-institut is the Federal Republic of Germany鈥檚 cultural institute, active worldwide. It promotes the study of German abroad and encourages international cultural exchange. Whenever possible, we organise workshops and get togethers with local artists. For example, in the recent TEN CITIES project this idea has led to a variety of musical collaborations between major cities in Africa and Europe, enabling about 50 DJs, producers and musicians to co-operate and produce music together.""

Schlachthofbronx, made up of Jakob (32) and Benedict (34), are known for a very particular sound that is not only influenced by traditional Bavarian music, but also by rave, dancehall, dubstep, baile funk, bounce, and cumbia.



The event in Rosebank was attended by a mixed audience of people interested in innovative electronic music, as well as some media representatives and bloggers.



Introducing themselves Benedict said: ""We play music that you could put into a lot of different genres: dancehall, hip hop, techno, dub, footwork, etc. But as we play nearly exclusively our own music, it always is something special and has our own twist on it.""



Jakob added: ""Basically, we 鈥榬e in the studio during the week, producing new tracks, and do a lot of cooking in our off time. And you know, the usual...""

The guys are both from Munich, Germany. ""It鈥檚 a pretty nice and wealthy small city. So growing up there was pretty standard for Germany"" said Jakob. He added that they knew each other for a long time because they were in the same circle of friends. Then in 2008 they got into talking music and started to work on some stuff together.""



About the event, the guys said: ""We were happy some friends and people turned up. We even had die-hard fans driving to the Rosebank event from soweto, so it was good to hangout as well.""



When asked about what they enjoyed and hated about what they did, they said: ""The best thing about what we do is we get to meet so many different people and get to travel to so many exciting places. That is really rewarding and always mind-opening. The hardest thing is difficult to say, as we know our 'job' is a pretty nice one as we are able to do what we love and make a living out of it. Maybe the actual travelling, like sitting in an overbooked early morning plane after you just got from a club playing, heading out to the next thing without sleep or food, sometimes can get a little demanding, but it鈥檚 part of the whole greater thing so we will never complain.""



About their thoughts on Mzansi and the Rosebank event Jakob said: ""We actually played in Bassline in 2009, together with a friend we collaborated with, spoek mathambo. So it was really nice coming back to SA and Joburg. We love the city, the food and the scene.""



After the SA event, The DJs are travelling to Yaound茅, Cameroon, then to Kampala, Uganda. Then they will be going to end the tour in Nairobi before heading back to the festival season in Europe.



""The tour has been great so far. It鈥檚 an amazing journey. You can get our album as a free download via www.raveandromance.com. No strings attached. Just because we love you,"" the happy duo said.



Listen to Schlachthofbronx - Lights off ft Nicky DA B



"
"Photograph by Ala Kheir

鈥淚n Sudan, there鈥檚 no institution that teaches photography as an art,鈥?photographer and director of Sudanese Photographers Group Ala Kheir states frankly about photographic practices in his home country. 鈥淭here are small institutions that teach the technical side of photography and how to be a camera operator, but issues like context, ethics and the social responsibility of photography are not being taught.鈥?
According to the award-winning photographer, this is one of the reasons that Kheir, along with dozens of photographers and representatives of photography training institutions across Africa, recently got together in Jo鈥檅urg for a workshop and meetings for the Centres of Learning for Photography in Africa project and network.

Creating a strong link with photographic centres and practitioners across the continent, the project aims to develop critical thinking on photography by supporting already established formal and non-formal training structures and initiatives in Africa. The network, which is facilitated and incubated by the Goethe-institut in collaboration with the Market Photo Workshop, also intends to form a solid educational resource hub for photography on the continent.

鈥淲e are concerned with critical thinking around photography; especially with the presence of Instagram, Facebook and the millions of photographs that are getting uploaded every day,鈥?says Dalia Suleiman, managing director at Cairo鈥檚 Contemporary Image Collective, an art initiative concerned with lens-based practices.

Members of the Centres of Learning for Photography in Africa network.

Brainchild of Nigerian photographer and intellectual Akinbode Akinbiyi who, along with Market Photo Workshop鈥檚 John Fleetwood, Michelle Loukidis and Michelle Harris, as well as German-born photographer Andr茅 L眉tzen convened a training session on project management, training trainers and an exchange around curricula of photography training in June and May. These gatherings aim to assist with providing photography training institutions with the skills and curriculum structure to provide high quality training to photographers, as well as to support the build up of well-equipped training centres that are able to sustain themselves in future.

The network Centres of Learning for Photography in Africa will establish and strengthen links between well-established photography training institutions such as the Market Photo Workshop in Johannesburg, which has been in existence for over 20 years, and younger centres such as the Sudanese Photographers Group on the end of the continent.

鈥淚n Egypt, we hardly link to the south or sub-Saharan Africa. It鈥檚 either we work with Tunisia, Morocco or the Middle East but we hardly have any connection in the south. So this was a great opportunity to connect,鈥?says Suleiman.

鈥淎nd I鈥檓 surprised to hear that we face more or less of the same issues, but it鈥檚 just in a different setting.鈥?
Following a project management training session co-hosted by Suleiman together with Khona Dlamini from the Market Photo Workshop and attended by Kheir, I sat down with Suleiman and Kheir to talk about Centres of Learning for Photography in Africa.

Photo by Ala Kheir in Khartoum, Sudan.

Will there be a particular structure or mould that each centre takes?

Ala Kheir: It can take so many shapes and forms. Each centre has its own target group and teaching system. It also really depends on what that centre wants to do. We have centres that can teach photography, so it depends. But the main target is to improve photography across the continent.

Dalia Suleiman: What we鈥檝e tried to do is see what facilities each of the centres has. And if we [as the network] do something collectively, we look at who can take part. For example, CIC [Contemporary Image Collective] and Market Photo Workshop have an established institutional structure, so these two centres could maybe provide space and organise and host events; whereas other centres, such as the Sudanese Photographers Group and the institute in Nigeria [Nlele Institute] have very talented photographers however they do not have the infrastructure. So we鈥檒l see what we need and how we can use the network to get things done.

Ala, you mentioned that the aim is to improve photography across the continent. What are your thoughts on the state of photography?

Ala: Well in Sudan, there鈥檚 no institution that teaches photography as an art. There are small institutions that teach the technical side of photography and how to be a camera operator but issues like context, ethics and the social responsibility of photography are not being taught. So the networks will try to establish a better system that can incorporate photography from all perspectives.

Dalia: I feel more or less the same. In Egypt there are so many places where you can learn photography, especially after the revolution. Photography has been widespread to a great extent; so everyone now has a camera and is taking pictures and uploading them. So the technical aspect is there. However, we [the network] are also concerned with critical thinking of photography; especially with the presence of Instagram, Facebook and the millions of photographs that are getting uploaded everyday. And in relation to the media; such as what is published and what is not published. It doesn鈥檛 seem like there is a lot of analytical thought around some of these images.

Ala Kheir.

What are some of the challenges that were spoken about during the workshops at Goethe and how do you think the centres assist with alleviating them?

Ala: The centres form a link with trainers who are very skilled in the continent, and we鈥檙e connected to organisations like the Market Photo Workshop, which has a pool of trainers that are of international standards. Teaching photography is similar across the world but you just have to filter in local contexts. The Centres of Learning is slowly trying to fulfill all those needs based on the local context each centre is faced with. And the network that we have with other centres will provide lots of help to build structures and curriculums.

Dalia: These workshops and series of meetings are an outcome of what we thought was essential, and that was based on the challenges; like a lack of trainers for examples. This is why we organised the training of trainers workshop. Another issue is getting the managerial side of things right; that is why we had the project management workshop. So these are the main challenges that I think apply to everyone. But there are also more localised issues, like funding, which applies for everyone, but it鈥檚 different from one country to the next because it has lots to do with governmental rules, population, photographic organisations and their structures, and so on.

Will the project provide support for these localised issues?

Dalia: [Each centre] will try to address every issue on its own; and we would depend on the people working [at the various to centres to address the local issues] as a way of personalising it.

And would there be one person or organisation overseeing the centres?

Dalia: The facilitator is Goethe-institut. And this was one of the outcomes of the first meeting in November: we going to need someone to coordinate the things we want to do. It鈥檚 a Goethe initiative but everyone is really enthusiastic and making an effort with this network.

Ala: It鈥檚 also a collective work. We all work together to make better photographic learning centres in different countries. It鈥檚 a circle in which we work together to build proper centres around the continent.

What was your first meeting in November about?

Ala: We defined if there is a need for such a thing [like a centre for learning]. And if there is a need, what is the next step. We had a survey, and based on that [we made] a decision made. We already know that there is a need, but it was more a focus on listing the needs and plan the way forward.

So what happens next after these training sessions and meeting?

Ala: There are lots of training programmes that will begin. Every centre will produce a document which has a goal, activities and plans for the upcoming two years. Based on their priorities, each centre will work differently.

Dalia: I will reflect on what鈥檚 happened at the sessions, and see how this can relate to CIC on a strategic level. The core group of the network is also supposed to meet in November 鈥?as it would be a year since the network was established 鈥?to evaluate the sessions and what can be done better and what else is needed.

For more information about Centres of Learning for Photography in Africa, visit goethe.

Stefanie Jason was commissioned by the Goethe-institut."
"Mikhael Subotzky photographed every window

鈥淓verybody鈥檚 got a Ponte story,鈥?says photographer Mikhael Subotzky. Many of these can be found in Ponte City, his book collaboration with British artist Patrick Waterhouse, which weaves photography, essays and found documents to showcase a visually rich and complex history of the iconic Jo鈥檅urg building.

The book launches with an installation of some of the works at Ponte City itself and a panel discussion and book signing at the FNB Joburg Art Fair this weekend.

When Subotzky moved to the city in 2008, he deliberately avoided Ponte in his search for a new photographic project. Looming over the skyline, the modernist tube was 鈥淛o鈥檅urg鈥檚 biggest clich茅鈥? every photographer 鈥渨orth his salt鈥?had taken a picture inside its core. When a journalist friend persuaded him to go to the tower to take a few snaps, though, he realised that, although images of the building鈥檚 core were common, nobody had 鈥渞eally engaged with the people and the history of the building in a thorough way鈥? Ever since its completion in 1976, Ponte has been 鈥渁 crucible for people鈥檚 mythologies,鈥?Subotzky says. 鈥淭he best and worst of Johannesburg has constantly been projected on to this building. It鈥檚 like a roller-coaster of myth鈥?reflecting 鈥渁 metaphorical history of Johannesburg and South Africa鈥?

Ponte was initially presented as 鈥渢he ultimate in upwardly mobile, aspirant white South Africa鈥? embodying the synthesis of urban modernity with apartheid鈥檚 鈥渢wisted utopian project鈥? Later it became notorious for drugs and overcrowding 鈥?鈥渁 symbol for the decay of Johannesburg鈥? which Subotzky believes was as exaggerated as the perceptions from its heyday.

In 2007 and 2008, new developers projected dreams of 鈥渋nner-city chic, New York-style city living鈥? With plans to create luxury apartments, their attempt to gentrify the building 鈥?which resulted in tenants being evicted from the derelict bottom half of the building 鈥?was scuppered by the global financial crisis. The owners took the building back and did a basic refurbishment.

Today Ponte is home to working- and middle-class people; there are no prostitutes or drug lords, Subotzky says 鈥?the building is 鈥渏ust normal now鈥? 鈥淭hat feels like a very appropriate place for the project to end, in relation to all that exaggerated mythology.鈥?
Subotzky and Waterhouse spent the first three weeks living in one of the developer鈥檚 show flats as part of what would become a six-year project.

鈥淚 was nervous. I had heard all the stories about Hillbrow and Berea,鈥?Subotzky says. Residents were 鈥渞emarkably open鈥? however, and ?the pair eventually got into every apartment.

鈥淧eople see a camera and think you鈥檙e photographing for the Daily Sun,鈥?he says. So it was essential to explain what they were doing. Photography has always been about relationships for Subotzky anyway 鈥?鈥渢he pressing of the button is almost a by-product of engaging with people鈥?

Inspired by a Corbusier quote that claims the apertures or negative space of a building express its essence, they photographed every TV, window and door in the building in what became the project鈥檚 backbone. 鈥淭his flattened out the round building,鈥?Subotzky says: it showed the relationships between people living on top of each other.

Picking through the detritus of emptied apartments, they kept encountering photographs and documentation left behind by evicted tenants. 鈥淲e realised that these things could tell a whole history that we couldn鈥檛 with our photographs 鈥?of all the people who had been there, in a kind of psycho-geographical sense,鈥?he says. Like archaeologists, they started 鈥渢rying to piece the narrative together from fragmented documents鈥?

Subotzky wanted Ponte City to be 鈥渁 historical document鈥?鈥?an attempt to make sense of the building as a metaphor, a structure, a home.

A hardback book of photographs is accompanied by 17 booklets featuring essays meticulously edited by Ivan Vladislavic: 鈥淎 way of floating different layers of narrative on top of each other.鈥?
Vladislavic鈥檚 鈥淔lat 3607鈥?recounts the story of two Congolese cousins, using the documentation found in the room. Harry Kalmer鈥檚 fictional piece imagines a visit by the Italian journalist Italo Calvino to the tower. Melinda Silverman鈥檚 essay explores Ponte City鈥檚 design and construction.

鈥淧onte is the centre of Jo鈥檅urg but so many people in my circles wouldn鈥檛 go there,鈥?Subotzky says.

Saturday鈥檚 book launch at the tower aims to lure an art fair crowd to the building, and is 鈥渁n honest attempt to take the work to a broader audience鈥? 鈥淚t鈥檚 just making the effort to build little bridges,鈥?says the photographer.

Ponte City is published by Steidl and the Walther Collection with the support of the Goethe-institut.

The book launches on Saturday August 23 at 11am at Ponte City, and at the FNB Joburg Art Fair at 5pm."
"The Brother Moves On at a show in Jo'burg in 2012

There is something deeply personal in writing about music. It is an autobiographical act because music is one of the ways through which we make sense of our lives and the world around us.

In his classic essay on Brenda Fassie, Thinking of Brenda: the Desire to Be, Professor Njabulo Ndebele, chancellor of the University of Johannesburg, writes: ""To remember songs is to remember time and place and circumstance 鈥?Thus, music can become one of the vital ways by which we connect with the world. How we map the trajectory of our feelings about where we have been, and where we are; about personal and historic events that we live through.""

The confluence of time, place and circumstance when I first heard the music of The Brother Moves On was not a happy one 鈥?I was a physical and emotional wreck. My uncle Ed, who had been like a surrogate father to me, died quite unexpectedly one Saturday morning in 2012 and I went to work the following Monday and acted as if nothing had happened. I didn't tell any of my colleagues at the ad agency where I worked at the time and nearly all of my friends found out weeks after the fact.

How can I explain this?

Sometimes painful emotional experiences can render us mute. During those days of unspeakable grief, the music of The Brother Moves On assumed the quality of a flicker of light at the end of a long, dark passage. So many of their songs revolve around death and mourning; despite the bleakness of the subject matter there is always the promise: You will heal.

""Ba re go lukile (They say it's going to be okay)/ Bagolo ba fihlile (The elders have arrived)/ Ba re go lukile (They say it's going to be okay).""

In her keynote address at the Goethe-institut's 脺ber(W)unden Art in Trouble Times conference in 2011, On the Pain of Death, Antjie Krog said something remarkably profound: that perhaps the only thing that art can do is ""to try to transform pain into a kind of beauty so that one, at times, can live with loss"".

This, I think, is what underpins the artistic enterprise of The Brother Moves On 鈥?the desire to transfigure pain into something beautiful so that one can live with it.

Named after the bow-tied assassin from New York who first appears in season two of David Simon's HBO crime drama The Wire, The Brother Mouzone, the performance-art collective has been around for a few years. For how long exactly remains the stuff of urban lore.

When I first met them in 2012 they eschewed being labelled as a band. The Brother Moves On was meant to be a tradition, with members coming and going freely, and not a band with fixed personas. Nevertheless, they have settled into something resembling a band and the line-up includes Siyabonga Mthembu (lead vocals), Raytheon Moorvan (guitar), Simphiwe Tshabalala (drums), Zelizwe Mthembu (guitar) and Ayanda Zalekile (bass).

Combining insightful sociopolitical commentary, personal and collective histories with a hybrid of musical influences from jazz, funk and rock, their music sidesteps reductive genre pigeonholing; yet at the heart of it is a quest for healing.

Their breakout EP, The Golden Wake (2012), narrated the life and death of Gold Wasegoli, an everyman who journeyed to Johannesburg from the hinterland in search of a better life. In mapping out the quiet tragedy of an ordinary man (a story that would never make it on to the evening news), The Golden Wake recalled American playwright Arthur Miller's Pulitzer-Prize-winning play Death of a Salesman.

Vocalist Siyabonga Mthembu?

In Miller's early career masterpiece 鈥?a stinging critique of the American Dream 鈥?the central character Willy Loman commits suicide after he is made redundant. In one of the most poignant passages in the play, Linda, Willy Loman's long-suffering wife, says of her husband: ""I don't say he's a great man. Willie Loman never made a lot of money. His name was never in the paper. He's not the finest character that ever lived. But he's a human being, and a terrible thing is happening to him. So attention must be paid. He's not to be allowed to fall into his grave like an old dog. Attention, attention must finally be paid to such a person"".

In the same vein, Wasegoli was by no means a great man and, in telling the tragic story of his life, The Brother Moves On presented a heartfelt reproach of post-apartheid South Africa; a country where so many are allowed to fall into their graves like dogs as yesteryear's heroes morph into tenderpreneurs.

""You are the failed revolution,"" Siyabonga Mthembu says in Gold's requiem in the satirical sermon, Black Diamond Butterfly: ""They're watching us, comrades, /they know we are not what we used to be.

""We constantly find ourselves in a space where our deaths are certain, /yet the uncertainty of our lives is all we can grasp. /We mourn constantly the ideals that continue to be turned into lies.""

Their second EP, ETA (Expected Time of Arrival), produced by 340ml drummer Paulo Chibanga and sound engineer Gavin Eckhart, came roughly a month after the massacre at Marikana. The band said on their website at the time that the song Good Times 鈥?about a miner, who gets mugged at a tavern 鈥?was meant to be a ""cathartic exercise"". The standout track, Ya'khalimbazo, which evoked the violence and bloodshed of the early 1990s, challenged the enduring myth of South Africa's peaceful transition to democracy.

Personal tragedy struck the group during the recording of their long-anticipated debut LP, A New Myth, when founding member Nkululeko Mthembu died suddenly.

""The loss of our brother Nkululeko 鈥楴kush Burnslow' Mthembu made us rethink our debut approach. We could not ignore the immense loss we collectively shared and it translated into our album,"" Mthembu says, and you can feel the anguish on the record. ""It's weird, our first EP was a staged funeral and our album comes in a time of mourning not only for us, but finally for the country too.""

The digital release of A New Myth remarkably coincided with the death of Nelson Mandela and it assumed a prophetic resonance.

In these times, the much-vaunted dream of revolution 鈥?the complete overthrow of an oppressive social order that inspired liberation movements across the continent 鈥?is dead.

""These days,"" artist Victor Gama laments, ""when we say 鈥榓luta continua', we no longer complete the phrase. We no longer say 鈥榓 vitoria 茅 certa' because we no longer believe victory is certain, we have lost faith in revolution, it is again impossible.""

It is again impossible because we have witnessed global events 鈥?the election of Barack Obama in 2008, say, and the protests in Tahir Square in Egypt three years ago 鈥?that briefly rekindled those dreams of re-making the world into a beautiful place, only for the vampires capitalism and ""politricks"" to rise again and take centre stage.

In South Africa it also feels like we're living through the death of a dream. ""The space we find ourselves in the world, in our country, in our very lives, is a very difficult one. We need a new myth, our old ones are lies to us now, and we know it, it's obvious,"" Mthembu told an interviewer for the blog Africa is a Country.

""The Mandela relation was a coincidence, but in what we do there are no coincidences. Our country is in a space where we have to reinterrogate what our myth is and construct a collective way forward. With his passing we are in a space where we need a new myth to reactivate our constant reality.""

It's time to dream new dreams!

Guitarist Raytheon Moorvan?. All photography by Delwyn Verasamy, M&G

A New Myth opens with the sombre 30-second a cappella, Everything Will Be OK. It's a plea to the ancestors for them to intervene in the affairs of the land. Everything Will Be OK leads into The Mourning After, a poignant guitar medley with Raytheon Moorvan and Zelizwe Mthembu. Sikelela, a remix of the national anthem, follows next. ""Our national anthem (which is a mix between Enoch Sontonga's Nkosi Sikelel' iAfrica and Die Stem) echoes the sentiment of being blessed by the fruits of this land. The song calls on these blessings to get one over the current hurdles that beset this land,"" reads the blurb for the song.

Sikelela speaks to the kind of future The Brother Moves On imagines. Death and mourning may be the two most prevalent themes in their music but there is also a restless yearning for freedom; not only freedom from the violence and death of the present, but also freedom to be as one chooses, to break free from rigid conceptions of identity.

Instead of leaving behind old ideas of race, the authors of Categories of Persons: Rethinking Ourselves and Others, Megan Jones and Jacob Dlamini, note that ""in the new South Africa the labels 鈥榖lack', 鈥榳hite', 鈥榗oloured' and 鈥業ndian' have retained, and perhaps even tightened, their grip on our vocabularies"".

The problem is not so much the labels but how much they constrict the expression of one's being. In her seminal lecture on Barack Obama and black identity, Speaking in Tongues, given at the New York Public Library in December 2008, British writer Zadie Smith said the injunction ""Keep it real"" turned blackness from a solid genetic fact into a quality each individual black person is constantly in danger of losing.

""And anything could trigger the loss of one's blackness: attending certain universities, an impressive variety of jobs, a fondness for opera, a white girlfriend, an interest in golf. And of course, any change in the voice. There was a popular school of thought that maintained that the voice was at the heart of the thing; fail to keep it real there and you'd never see your blackness again,"" she said.

Even though Smith was talking to an American audience, this failure to understand blackness as multivocal is not unique to the United States.

How many times, I wonder, has Lindiwe Mazibuko been called a ""house Negro"" or not ""black enough"" because of the private-school English inflections in her voice? And that voice, so the argument runs, is evidence that she has severed ties with her roots and no longer identifies with what it means to be black.

On the lead single, [email protected], Mthembu sings: ""We're moments of evolution in motion."" Our identities are not fixed or pinned to the ground; we're constantly changing as we move through the world.

The voices most of us speak in reflect the complicated back stories of our upbringings that, like Smith's, have embedded in them ""the story of this and that combined, of the synthesis of disparate things"". This is the point she makes so eloquently, that none of us, black or otherwise, claim to say 鈥業' with conviction. We each inhabit multiple selves and one can be black, homosexual and Catholic all at the same time. It is not a choice of either/or.

The track Hosanna is the centrepiece of A New Myth:

""The days of peace are no longer/ The people who professed to peace are no longer/ All I hear is violence and death/ Release us oh God of peace/ Release us.""

It seems fitting that the album draws to a close with a mourning song, which has been sung by several generations of black families at funerals. Mourning, Sigmund Freud says, allows the subject to heal by letting go of the mourned object. Melancholia, its opposite, tries to hold on to what is irretrievably lost and by doing so it incapacitates the ability of the self to heal.

A New Myth is about letting go, however painful that may be, so that we can dream new dreams.

The Brother Moves On perform at the Roundhouse Rising Festival in the United Kingdom on February 20 and 23 as part of the British Council's Connect ZA Future Music Series 鈥?an initiative to connect young creative artists and audiences in South Africa and the UK. Visit this page to find out how you can enter the Young Creative Entrepreneurs Awards 2014 鈥?a year-long awards programme for leaders shaping our creative future"
"



Wordweaver Publishing House will make history by appearing at the South African Book Fair, courtesy of a grant from the Goethe-institut in Johannesburg.

The South African Book Fair, previously known as the Cape Town Book Fair, takes place in June 2014.

Wordweaver is Namibia鈥檚 first dedicated publisher of fiction, and has produced 17 titles so far, winning two gold awards at the Namibian Children鈥檚 Book Forum. Through a recent deal with Blue Weaver, a South African distribution company, their titles should soon be more widely available to South African readers.

Press release:

Wordweaver Publishing House, Namibia鈥檚 first dedicated fiction publisher, has received a grant from the Goethe-institut in Johannesburg to attend the South African Book Fair in June 2014.

Wordweaver is a small independent publishing house, which has published 17 titles to date and won two gold awards at the Namibian Children鈥檚 Book Forum. The company has also just signed a distribution contract with South African distributors, Blue Weaver, which will make the books easily accessible to residents of South Africa.

In response to the difficulties faced by Namibian writers of fiction to have their work published, Bryony van der Merwe launched Wordweaver Publishing House in March 2012. She was backed by over 10 years of experience in the Namibian publishing industry and the conviction that Namibian fiction warranted a worldwide audience.

This adventurous new publishing house was inaugurated by launching three skilfully designed books with eye-catching covers: Dante International, a thriller by Sharon Kasanda; Bullies, Beasts and Beauties, an anthology of short stories by Sylvia Schlettwein and Isabella Morris; and Hakahana, a compilation of poetry and photography by Hugh Ellis.

Since then Wordweaver鈥檚 range has widened to include several illustrated books for children, a publication in German, and This is Not a Flowerpot, a novel by Amy Schoeman. A publishing highlight in 2013 was Elves and Feathered Friends, a beautifully illustrated children鈥檚 book by Isabel Eckleben, followed by The Kupferberg Mining Company, a gripping thriller by Johan Beyers, and Mama Namibia, a historical novel by Mari Serebov. In 2013 Wordweaver launched its first magazine, In Season, Namibia鈥檚 first green lifestyle publication.

Thus Wordweaver is contributing distinctively and dynamically to the publishing scene in Namibia, giving voice to new young writers in all genres and from all walks of life. This is particularly important since in the past there has been scant support for writers of fiction, whether for adults or for children, as the major local publishers concentrated, and still do, on school textbooks.

Titles published by Wordweaver include This is Not a Flowerpot (Amy Schoeman); Welwitschia鈥檚 World (Joh Henschel); Dante International (Sharon Kasanda); A Beginner鈥檚 Guide to Ageing (Jean Fischer); The Kupferberg Mining Company (Johan Beyers); When You Dance with the Crocodile (Erna Muller) and Mama Namibia (Mari Serebrov).

For more information about the other titles published by this dynamic house, visit their website www.wordweaverpublishing.com or visit their stall at the South African Book Fair.

Ends

Book details

Dante International by Kasanda Sharon

EAN: 9789991688985

Find this book with BOOK Finder!

Mama Namibia by Mari Serebrov

EAN: 9789991688954

Find this book with BOOK Finder!

This Is Not a Flowerpot by Amy Schoeman

EAN: 9789991688978

Find this book with BOOK Finder!

Image courtesy of Wordweaver"
"Alert! Penny Busetto won the eighth annual European Union Literary Award tonight, in a ceremony at Johannesburg鈥檚 Goethe-institut presided over by one of the icons of South African literature, Mongane Wally Serote.

Busetto鈥檚 winning manuscript 鈥?the award is given to a first, unpublished work of fiction 鈥?is entitled The Story of Anna P, as Told by Herself and will be published by Jacana Media in April 2014.

In addition, the newly-minted author receives R25 000, plus inclusion in an upcoming Exclusive Books promotion.

The winner of the 2013 #EULitAward is Penny Busetto, for her novel The Story of Anna P, as Told by Herself pic.twitter.com/Xp9Ko3mYtw 鈥?Ben Williams (@benrwms) November 27, 2013

One of three shortlisted works, The Story of Anna P, as Told by Herself pipped Peter Bayer鈥檚 The Last Mentsch and Reen Collett鈥檚 Nketu, the Story of a South African King to the gong. Click here for more details on the shortlist. Last year鈥檚 winner was Ashraf Kajee, for his novel Khalil鈥檚 Journey.

The 2013 judges were Serote, Pamela Nichols and Phakama Mbonambi. Nichols and Jacana鈥檚 Maggie Davey delivered the main remarks ahead of the awards presentation, and both reflected on some of the problems facing contemporary South African fiction, from readers鈥?and publishers鈥?perspectives.

Nichols lamented the fact that many of the twenty-nine books she and her fellow judges read to arrive at the shortlist comprised stories that lived behind conventional cultural barriers, and failed to engage meaningfully with wider social contexts. Davey related the chilling fact that Jacana was publishing half as much literary fiction as it has in the past, because of the genre鈥檚 dropping commercial viability, and issued a plea for writers, readers, publishers and booksellers collectively to work to save the literary novel.

Their remarks served to illustrate the importance of the EU Literary Award in reinvigorating our local fiction scene. Your Correspondent attended the ceremony; here are the main tweets from my timeline:

Press release

European Union Literary Award 2013 鈥?Winner Announcement by Books LIVE"
"Samsung Electronics and American global content production and distribution company Universal Pictures Home Entertainment (UPHE) have announced plans to bring to market titles mastered with HDR10+, the next generation of video standard specification technology developed by Samsung Electronics.

HDR10+ (High Dynamic Range 10+) is an open source-based next-generation video standard led by Samsung Electronics. HDR10+ transforms your TV experience with incredible brightness and contrast for each scene, delivering brighter brights and deepest darks. HDR10+ provides an extraordinary HDR picture-quality experience for viewers and delivers the highest-quality viewing experience.

Through this partnership, Samsung Electronics and UPHE will collaborate on a wide selection of new release and catalog fare with HDR10+ technology, providing consumers with the best-possible home entertainment viewing experience on a variety of displays.

Michael Bonner, executive VP, Digital Distribution, UPHE, said: 鈥淲e are delighted to team with Samsung Electronics on HDR10+ to deliver this striking, cutting-edge technology to entertainment consumers, providing them with the opportunity to enjoy unparalleled, state-of-the-art movie-watching experiences across an array of Universal physical and digital titles.鈥?
鈥淲e have launched a new era of picture-quality technology with HDR10+, providing an amplified vivid viewing experience for consumers鈥?said Hyogun Lee, Executive VP of R&D Team, Visual Display Business at Samsung Electronics. 鈥淏ased on Samsung Electronics鈥?unique technology and proficiency, we will continue to expand our alliances with premier partners like Universal to provide consumers with the best HDR content possible.鈥?
Samsung Electronics has been collaborating with various companies such as movie studios and OTT operators since the formation of the HDR10+ LLC in August, 2017, leading the next generation HDR technology and expanding the ecosystem. In addition to Korea, Japan and the US, Samsung will continue to strengthen the HDR10+ logo and certification program partnership in other territories around the world.

The HDR10+ certification / logo operating program consists of sharing detailed specifications of technology and test, providing a certification logo and user guide, and certifying the device through a third-party testing laboratory. Logo and technology fees are free. Additional details can be found at www.hdr10plus.org."
"Wristband鈥檚 payments will now be accepted in New York, Chicago, Singapore, Sydney, and Taiwan.

Fitbit has announced that Fitbit Pay is available for consumers to use at seven major transit systems around the world.

Fitbit also announced it will be part of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority鈥檚 (MTA) One Metro New York (OMNY) contactless fare payment pilot program. Any user in New York with Fitbit Charge 3 Special Edition, Fitbit Versa Special Edition and Fitbit Ionic devices will be able to securely and easily tap and pay-per-ride directly from their wrist on select MTA busses and subway lines, providing the convenience to keep their smartphones and wallets tucked away.

Starting May 31, Fitbit users with Fitbit Pay-enabled smartwatches and trackers can tap and pay to board all Staten Island buses, and all stops on the 4, 5 and 6 subway lines between Grand Central and Atlantic Avenue-Barclays Center. This pilot program marks the beginning of a long-term relationship with the MTA, with plans to extend the organization鈥檚 OMNY program to the entire subway and bus system by 2021.

鈥淲e鈥檙e excited to work with Fitbit and others to help us provide added value and everyday convenience to our customers,鈥?said Al Putre, OMNY Executive Director at the MTA. 鈥淲e are always looking for ways to enhance the transit experience and help New Yorkers and visitors alike get to their destination faster and make payment more convenient, and now they can do so with any Fitbit wearable that supports Fitbit Pay with a simple tap of the wrist.鈥?
In addition to bringing Fitbit Pay to one of the largest and busiest public transit systems in the world with the MTA, Fitbit continues to expand its global transit system capabilities to serve commuters and travelers from all over. Fitbit Pay can now be used across seven open and closed loop transit systems, including Chicago Transit Authority (CTA), Singapore Land Transport Authority (LTA), Sydney transport for New South Wales (NSW) train, ferry and light rail services, Taiwan iPASS, TransLink in Vancouver and Transport for London (TfL), with plans to bring Fitbit Pay to more global transit systems in the future.

鈥淚n addition to helping our users get healthier and more active, we鈥檙e committed to delivering holistic experiences on our trackers and smartwatches that help keep our 27 million active users engaged,鈥?said James Park, CEO and co-founder of Fitbit. 鈥淎s we expand the use of Fitbit Pay to work with the MTA and other major transit systems around the globe, we are enabling our on-the-go customers to safely and easily pay for transit with devices that are broadly compatible and have long battery life 鈥?all making it easier to go about their day.鈥?
In less than two years, Fitbit Pay is now available in 42 countries and supported by more than 300 of the world鈥檚 leading banks and credit unions through American Express,1Mastercard and Visa networks. Through a few quick and easy steps, Fitbit users can add up to six credit or debit cards to their Fitbit Wallet in the Fitbit app on Android or iOS mobile devices. Using the NFC chip built-into select Fitbit smartwatches and trackers, Fitbit Pay users can easily pay for items at millions of stores worldwide wherever contactless payments are accepted.

All Fitbit Pay transactions use an industry standard tokenization platform, ensuring users鈥?card information is never revealed or shared with merchants or Fitbit. For added security, a protected PIN is chosen by the user during device set-up. Users are also covered by their bank鈥檚 fraud protection and continue to enjoy the advantages conferred by their bank or credit card, including guarantees, insurance coverage, points and miles, without having to take out their wallets. For more information about Fitbit Pay, supported banks and transit systems, visit Fitbit.com/Fitbit-Pay."
"Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)

Click to share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window)

Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)

Click to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)

Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)

Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)

Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)

Apple has finally discovered Dark Mode, making it a highlight of its unveil for its updated iPhone operating system

Apple last night previewed iOS 13, introducing a new look for iPhones, with Dark Mode and new ways to browse and edit photos, sign in to apps and websites. It features optimisations across the system that improve app launch, reduce app download sizes and make Face ID faster.

鈥渋OS 13 brings new capabilities to the apps you use every day, with rich updates to Photos and Maps, and privacy-protecting features like Sign In with Apple, all while delivering faster performance,鈥?said Craig Federighi, Apple鈥檚 senior vice president of Software Engineering.

iPhone has a new look with Dark Mode, a new dark colour scheme that works system-wide and across all native apps to deliver an improved viewing experience in low-light environments. Dark Mode is available to third-party app developers for integration into their own apps and can be scheduled to turn on automatically at sunset or at a certain time.

Dark Mode has been available on Android phones for some time. However, it was poorly received when it was enabled by default initially. It now includes a toggle to switch between modes. The benefits of Dark Mode in low light are also questionable, with many users finding it decreases visibility.

However, Apple also announced a range of other new or improved features for iOS.

Click here to read more about the redesigned Photos app, the new Mapping system, and other new features."
"South Africans will be able to get a glimpse of the hottest Indie Games and Media Art in Africa when the annual A MAZE. / Johannesburg 2013 kicks off on 5 September in the Johannesburg suburb of Braamfontein.

鈥淭he full festival program will blast your mind, and will inspire you and every cell in your body. We are so happy to bring together the most relevant creatives and forward thinkers of the African and European games and media art scene,鈥?A MAZE. / Johannesburg said in a statement.

The annual event is presented in partnership with the Digital Arts Department of the University of the Witwatersrand, and in cooperation with the Goethe-institut in Johannesburg, while being co-funded by the European Union.

In terms of gaming, A MAZE. and Wits Digital Arts invites all game designers from everywhere to take part in the game festival. The game jam is organised as part of the 2nd International Games /Media Art Festival 鈥?A MAZE. / Johannesburg.

They added that games addressing Africa as a whole, select parts of Africa, specific concerns in Africa, or dreams and fantasies of Africa are welcome.

鈥淕ame development is a burgeoning field all across the continent and, in this spirit, games reflecting on Africa have huge potential to educate, entice and reach people of all walks of life. This Game Jam brings together game developers from across the continent and across the world, to start a creative conversation about games in Africa. 鈥?
For more information on A MAZE. / Johannesburg 2013 and to find out more about the 3-day festival, visit www.amaze-johannesburg.co.za

Charlie Fripp 鈥?Consumer Tech editor"
"Nelisiwe Xaba and J Mocke van Veuren's digital art work Uncles & Angles has won the FNB Art Prize. (Supplied)

It was a balmy spring day when Ross Douglas launched the sixth edition of the FNB Jo'burg Art Fair at the Shine Studios in Braamfontein, with a dramatic view over the Nelson Mandela Bridge.

While the core group of organisers, gallery owners, curators, arts reporters and critics remains the same, it is the artists and their preoccupations that change from year to year.

This year there are 33 confirmed galleries that will attend, of which 11 are new galleries showing work at the fair for the first time.

The announcement that this year would be a focus on photography, and that veteran photographer David Goldblatt would be the featured artist, was met with a sense of all-round joy. Particularly since Goldblatt 鈥?recipient of the 2009 Hasselblatt Award and the 2009 Henri Cartier-Bresson Foundation Award 鈥?has produced a body of work that spans the decades of conservatism and change.

If one thing has been missing from the art fair, in its six years, it has been this: a presentation of work that shows South Africa through the periscope of time as opposed to a summary of the art produced over the past year. Or single coveted items, of historical value, intended for the investor.

""I have chosen to show a selection of work that I haven't yet published or exhibited,"" said Goldblatt. ""My concern for many years has been with values 鈥?how we express those values, our ethos in what we build has been the way I have probed this in photographs.

""And so for example, in earlier years during the years of apartheid [I photographed] the Strijdom Monument in Pretoria which was a paean of praise to JG Strijdom. There was an opera house built next to it, and four horses that galloped into the future 鈥?the four provinces of South Africa.

""Then here was the dramatic loss of Mr Strijdom鈥檚 head when it fell through the back of the floor into the parking garage below.

""These are the things I've looked at. And more recently what to me is a mere fascist structure in Soweto: the so-called Walter Sisulu Square of Dedication. And then travelling the country now, and looking at all kinds of things that denote post-apartheid.

""This is the sort of thing that I'm showing. There will be some pictures from early on and some pictures from post-apartheid South Africa.""

The series titled The Structure of Things Then 鈥?and After is a furtherance of Goldblatt's earlier collection, published in 1998, simply titled The Structure of Things Then.

Other announcements made concerned the winners of the third edition of the coveted FNB Art Prize. This was given to digital artist Mocke J van Veuren and dancer Nelisiwe Xaba for their video installation Uncles & Angels. In receiving the award, Van Veuren acknowledged that the work examines the role of traditional dance (in this instance the famed Reed Dance that promotes female chastity) in defining ""feminine sexuality under patriarchy. But it takes it into a different mode of thinking.""

About the digital process Xaba said, ""It looks at the challenges between the body and the screen. The dominance of either the video or the body, how video usually dominates when it comes to theatrical performance.""

The prize is valued at R100 000 and the work receives a dedicated booth at the art fair.

Other initiatives this year include a new partnership with Samsung for a video art showcase. The chosen artist is Mohau Modisakeng, who will present his work Inzilo, which will also be shown at LOOP 2014 in Barcelona with the support of the Spanish government. This will happen thanks to a partnership that Artlogic, the company behind the art fair, has created with LOOP.

Further special projects include an exhibition of Santu Mofokeng's The Black Photo Album/Look at Me: 1890-1950, and a selection of Roger Ballen鈥檚 photographs from his series Outland, Boarding House, Shadow Chamber, Dorps and Platteland.

Photographs from Lagos; emerging photographers from the African Biennale of Photography in Bamako, Mali; a book launch of Art Cities of the Future (Phaidon); video works from the Brics countries and discussions about collecting contemporary African art (sponsored by the Goethe-institut) make up the rest of the programme.

Finally, the tyre manufacturer Pirelli, that presents a work on the theme ""Let's Dance"" each year, in accordance with their Formula One campaign slogan, has named Nandipha Mntambo as their commissioned artist for 2013. She has worked on the subject of Spanish bullfighting before, and her new work will focus on the movement of bodies as they dance the famed Paso Doble.

The FNB Jo'burg Art Fair will run from September 27 to 29 at the Sandton Convention Centre. Visit the website for more information."
There are cash prizes to be won, break beats to be heard and top-notch poetry from South Africa鈥檚 young soul to be experienced.The poetry competition is being annually implemented by Drama for Life, a Wits University based academic drama programme. The 2013 title 鈥淢an.Woman.Any[Queer]ies?鈥?has attracted participants with especially colourful and multilingual work of verbal art. Artists between the age of 18 and 30 were asked to deal with the topic of gender roles and further, love and sexuality. What the poets carved out of this idea was a mix of very intimate and touching, sometimes humorous or heart-shattering poetry that provoked general societal questions around gender roles, homosexuality and freedom of love. The poem by artist Poetic Butterfly for example is in Zulu 鈥?and by coming out as third most popular at the Gauteng Regional Finals her art showed that the audience and judges highly related to her art of word.On Saturday, 12 October, the top two winners from KwaZulu-Natal, Free State, Eastern Cape, Zululand, Western Cape and Gauteng are going to meet in Johannesburg and fight not only over the title of the best Lover + Another poet that will be chosen by the distinguished Lover + Another National Finals judges and renowned poets Malika Ndlovu, Donna Smith and Medical doctor Thandokuhle Mngqibisa. The top three finalists will also be rewarded with a bag of lavish cash prizes.The DFL Lover + Another Poetry Challenge would not have been possible without Business and Arts South Africa, the European Union Delegation to SA, Flow Communications, ELM Mission, Deutsche Gesellschaft f眉r internationale Beziehungen GmbH, Goethe-institut, The Open Society Initiative for Southern Africa, Themba Trust UK, the Wits Transformation Office, the Wits School of Arts, Wits Counselling and Careers Development Unit and the University of the Witwatersrand.The Lover + Another National Poetry Competition starts on Saturday, 12 October at 19:30 at Hillbrow Theatre and will be emced by Kiri Pink Nob managing director, Jefferson Tshabalala.For more information, visit www.dramaforlife.co.za
"African Film magazine printed in Lagos for West African distribution.

A book with the all-encompassing title Afropolis (Jacana Media) sets itself up for the usual criticism: it promises what it could never deliver. What is included is often largely representative, but what has been left out is compelling enough and seems to cry out for consideration.

Afropolis contains panoramic shots of the visual arts and histories, the literatures, sociopolitics and urban-scapes of five African cities: Cairo and Lagos 鈥?the biggest in terms of population 鈥?and Kinshasa, Nairobi and Johannesburg.

You might start quibbling about the under-representation of Francophone Africa. You will mention Kinshasa. Even though it鈥檚 a French-speaking city, it is actually a former plaything of the Belgians (if you strain your ears, those whimpers are the denizens of Dakar in Senegal and Abidjan in C么te d鈥橧voire bemoaning their exclusion but, to be fair to the editors, there are snapshots of Cameroon鈥檚 Douala).

In Afropolis鈥檚 defence, books of this nature normally ignore Arabic-speaking Africa, so the inclusion of Cairo must be applauded.

The book is a translation and revision of an original exhibition catalogue. The show took place in 2012, in Cologne, Germany, after a programme was developed by the Rautenstrauch-Joest Museum 鈥?Cultures of the World. The current edition is edited by curators Kerstin Pinther, Larissa F枚rster and Christian Hanussek and is published in association with the Goethe-institut.

According to the curatorial statement, the exhibition鈥檚 approach highlighted 鈥渢he interconnectedness of scientific and artistic concepts, not only exploring urban histories and recent developments, but also presenting 30 artistic viewpoints on issues of urbanity about and from these five cities.鈥?
The revised volume now features essays by an exciting array of scholars including Dominique Malaquais, Tom Odhiambo, Edgar Pieterse and AbdouMaliq Simone; there are works by visual artists Sabelo Mlangeni and Sam Nhlengetwa, graphic designer Emeka Udemba and photographer Uche Okpa-Iroha; and there are Q&A interviews with architect David Adjaye, curator Bisi Silva and photo-grapher Van Leo.

Paradigm shifts

In the introduction, the editors immediately set out the difficulty of the task: 鈥淗ow do you curate an exhibition on African megacities?鈥?
There are a number of hurdles to overcome. There is a certain Western gaze that might wish to look at the African city as though it was a midget version of the European city. But movements and paradigm shifts within urban studies have resulted in a welcome realisation that what were seen as the shortcomings of the African city are perhaps not exactly that.

As millions of Africans stream to the cities and the populations of metropolises in Europe and in parts of the United States stagnate, there is a grudging acceptance that the city of the 鈥渢hird鈥?world is going to be the prototypical city of the future.

Of the 30 megacities in the world, for example, 鈥渢he Western industrialised countries only account for four of them 鈥?London, Paris, New York and Los Angeles鈥?

This provocative introduction is the premise for the book. The first stop is Douala where Hanussek and Salifou Lindou sample the watering holes of this Cameroonian city in a totally unscientific and idiosyncratic way.

It鈥檚 not just the quirky; there is a devotion to the scholarly too, as in essays by Pieterse and Simone that focus on Johannesburg. Simone鈥檚 essay begins by pointing out that Johannesburg is 鈥渁bout as far away as one can get from the popular image of the African village鈥? and yet even in these urban ruins there is a human infrastructure among those 鈥渋mmiserated by urban life鈥?

City, cinema and film

Next up, curator Marie-H茅l猫ne Gutberlet鈥檚 essay explores the relationship of the 鈥渃ity, cinema and film鈥? In her attempt to link the city and cinema, Gutberlet argues, somewhat tenuously, that 鈥渢he city provides the external structure within which urban life unfolds, while the cinema accommodates the film in which ideas of a life in the city are processed and given concrete shape鈥?

One of the most fascinating sections of the book is the part about Lagos. Reading up on Lagos, it is easy to see why to the Western gaze it is a city of nightmares, a necropolis even. There鈥檚 everything to scare the faint-hearted: death-trap automobiles in lurid yellows; the habitual razing of whole mini-cities by heartless, punctilious bureaucrats; a do-it-yourself self-organisation that always appears to the external eye as chaos. (I remember a talk by writer Chris Abani a few years ago in which he said that one of the first signs you see when you drive into Lagos from the airport is: 鈥淭his is Nigeria鈥? a statement phrased as a warning). This is the subject of Peter Probst鈥檚 essay, Lagos 鈥?Oshodi: Inspecting an urban icon.

Matthew Krings weighs in with an essay about Lance Spearman, a James Bondian Casanova detective figure created by Drum magazine in 1960s. The Spear is one of Africa鈥檚 first truly transnational heroes, a man whose every exploit was closely followed as much in Lagos and Nairobi as in Johannesburg.

Odhiambo鈥檚 write-up, Sketches of Post Colonial Kenyan Literature: Cultural Anthropology or Creative Fiction, concerns itself mostly with the legacy of popular writers such as Meja Mwangi, Charles Mangua (teenage heroes of mine) and David Mailu.

Lurid catalogue of shenanigans

These writers didn鈥檛 just document the traditional livelihoods of 鈥渢ribes-people鈥?but were interested in what happened to them when they arrived in the city.

What resulted was a sometimes lurid catalogue of the shenanigans the Nairobians were up to at dusk in the city鈥檚 nooks and alleys, how they sped on the city鈥檚 highways and negotiated its byways.

It鈥檚 a mantle the city fictioneers have passed on to the Kwani collective, worthy descendants one might add. One of their recent and, I might add, grand projects is photographs of Nairobi, all shot in a few hours.

A standout essay from Afropolis is one by Malaquais. She writes a fascinating piece on the boxing match Rumble in the Jungle in the part about Kinshasa. Her question is why the city that hosted this momentous match, in which George Foreman and Muhammad Ali faced off in 1974, is largely absent from most narratives, most of which privilege the United States鈥檚 civil rights movement.

Noor Nieftagodien鈥檚 essay on the history of Alexandra township is a good read and so is Thomas G Kirsch鈥檚 piece on apartheid and power (not the thing politicians wield but the stuff that鈥檚 transported by cables) and who has access to it.

It begins provocatively with a satellite map of the world. As you might have guessed, Africa is indeed the Dark Continent. Yet the area we know as Gauteng is lit, even though most working-class people in Soweto don鈥檛 really have access to power 鈥?victims of neoliberal policies that dictate that people should only use the power they buy."
"Kemang Wa Lehulere is one of two young artists awarded the 15th B芒loise Art Prize at the 2013 Art Basel art fair.

The annual award, which comprises two prizes of 30 000 Swiss francs (approximately R325 000) each, is given to artists exhibiting as part of Statements 鈥?Art Basel鈥檚 sector for young and emerging artists. Wa Lehulere鈥檚 work is being presented at Statements by Johannesburg's Stevenson Gallery.

Read more on Art Basel

The prize also includes the acquisition by B芒loise of a group of works by the award winners, which are donated to two important museums in Europe: currently the Hamburger Kunsthalle and the MUMOK (Museum Moderner Kunst Stiftung Ludwig), in Vienna.

The prize was shared by Wa Lehulere and Jenni Tischer of Germany.

The jury characterised Wa Lehulere鈥檚 work as follows: 鈥淚n his work Kemang Wa Lehulere explores questions of collective memory and seeks to uncover the traces of South African history. To this end, he not only uses the devices of revealing and writing down but also of wiping out text and pictures. His wall-sized drawings, installations, performances and photographs establish a link between the trauma and myths of South Africa鈥檚 past and contemporary social issues. Wa Lehulere's works may be read as an archive, which demonstrates the process of forgetting and, like a collage, simultaneously opens avenues to new narratives that encourage multiple interpretations.鈥?
The 29-year-old Wa Lehuler lives in Johannesburg. He has held solo exhibitions at Lombard-Freid Projects, New York (2013); Stevenson, Johannesburg (2012); the Goethe-institut, Johannesburg (2011) and AVA, Cape Town (2009). Important group shows include My Joburg at La Maison Rouge, Paris (which will open on June 21); The Ungovernables, the second triennial exhibition of the New Museum, New York (2012); and A Terrible Beauty is Born, the 11th Lyon Biennale (2011).

Wa Lehulere was a co-founder of the Gugulective, an artist-led collective based in Cape Town, and a founding member of the Centre for Historical Reenactments in Johannesburg. He won the inaugural Spier Contemporary Award in 2007, and the MTN New Contemporaries Award in 2010."
"Spines, a local performance festival, will take place in Johannesburg this year.

It will be held from Friday, November 30 to Sunday, December 2 and invites the audience to move on the city鈥檚 urban routes using minibus taxis, their own feet, the Gautrain, and bicycles.

Festival visitors will see, hear and feel performances in different neighbourhoods from Sandton to Soweto.

As the third section of the Goethe-institut鈥檚 New Imaginaries series, Spines seizes on both public and private transport lines in Johannesburg, connects them and makes the sociocultural and architectural diversity of the city the backdrop of an investigation into the city鈥檚 transport and life lines 鈥?its spine.

Spines is divided into two main routes that connect at Park Station:

United African Utopias, which aims at altering, inverting and transforming perspectives.

United African Utopias ventures into the future and into people鈥檚 dreams of a better world, a better time, a better person 鈥?into the dreams that we often seem to forget while swimming in the current of so-called real life. United African Utopias is a reminder that all things on the planet are invented by mankind, and thus, can be changed by mankind. We can create the world we want to live in.

The Utopian Crew consisting of Jo茫o Orecchia, Hans Narva, Mpumi Mcata and Tanja Krone take the visitor on a journey. A journey to a new Johannesburg, where a park grows in Park Station and Main Street has become unrecognisable as Main Street.

A journey through the heart of the city, to a different pulse of life, travelling by any means other than sailing on a boat, to the other end of town and beyond, to places yet undiscovered, places within us 鈥?to a true utopia!

Visitors embark on a journey to and through the city.

Starting point is the Rent-a-Wreck car rental service in Doornfontein. On foot and by various means of transport, visitors move through the city to several venues, the utopias. Along the way they encounter performances, sounds, works of art, human beings.

Visitors are trained to deal with all sorts of situations they may face at the utopias. They learn new skill sets and survival strategies, each of them pieces in a puzzle on a mysterious journey.

The In House Project, which takes contemporary dance and performance art out of the dark auditoriums that are traditionally accepted as theatre venues and brings them back to the centre of people鈥檚 living spaces, into their apartments, houses and residential environments in the city or its suburbs 鈥?be it in Soweto, Alexandra or in the northern suburbs.

Performances are presented in private living areas as well as public spaces to which visitors are being guided along diverse public transport routes. The performance journey challenges participants and the audience to break their routine and habits and experience Johannesburg and its surroundings from other people鈥檚 point of view.

There are three different tours on three days, starting at Park Station in Johannesburg鈥檚 city centre using mini bus taxis and the Gautrain.

鈥淚 am seeking to change the public perception of urban and suburban spaces and to create images that move out of and beyond the ordinary dance stages that have become the norm,鈥?says Sello Pesa, artistic director of Ntsoana Contemporary

Dance Theatre. Hence art is brought to the public space and reaches a new audience.

Ntsoana Contemporary Dance Theatre is a dance collective that generates and implements concepts framed within socio political concepts, committed to exploring the diverse and evolving South African cultures and cultural practices through the medium of contemporary dance. Ntsoana Contemporary Dance

Theatre consists of Sello Pesa, Brian Mtembu, and Humphrey Maleka. It presents In House Project for the third time. Further artists participating in the project include: Leila Anderson & Stan Wannet (SA), Thabiso Pule & Edith Chakudu (SA), Murray Kruger (SA), and Johannes Paul Raether (Germany), Christian Etongo (Cameroon).

There is no admission fee. The public can register for their preferred tour(s) until Monday, November 26, by sending the name, e-mail-address and phone number to spines@johannesburg.goethe.org

United African Utopias

Start: Rent-a-Wreck,

13 Siemert Rd, Doornfontein

In House Project

Start: Park Station,

Johannesburg City

Friday, November 30, 10am, 12am

Saturday, December 1, 12am, 2pm

Sunday, December 2, 12am, 2pm"
"Streets ahead: Johannes Paul Raether and Stan Wannett took their art to the streets of Jo鈥檅urg as part of the Spines performance festival.

On an Alexandra pavement a man lay motionless, a pool of pink wax pouring from his head, eggs scattered around him. Children gathered around the figure, taxis and cars stopped in the street to take a look and a concerned woman stopped to check the man鈥檚 pulse.

This was not a crime scene or a car accident, but an intervention staged by the duo Common Sense 鈥?Dutch installation artist Stan Wannet and South Africa鈥檚 Leila Anderson. It formed part of last week鈥檚 Spines performance festival, which was sponsored by the Goethe-institut.

Local resident Michael Mathebula watched the scene from across the road. 鈥淚t creates a lot of assumptions,鈥?he said, 鈥渇or instance, that a white man was killed on the street.鈥?
For Mathebula the piece recalled the violence in the township of the 1980s. He said of the artists: 鈥淲e welcome them to be free. There are just going to be surprises.鈥?
It was this element of uncertainty and surprise that characterised the three-day festival, a sprawling exploration of the city through public art focused on public transport routes connecting Johannesburg鈥檚 inner city with its townships and suburbs.

The festival comprised two parts. The first was the In House Project, which changed each day, organised by the Ntsoana Contemporary Dance Theatre including Sello Pesa, Humphrey Maleka and Brian Mtembu.

Pesa explained the project: 鈥淲e were talking about the two extremes 鈥?being in the townships and the suburbs 鈥?and also for the artists to be in backgrounds they were not used to. That was where we started.鈥?
The second component was United African Utopias, organised by musicians Jo茫o Orecchia, Hans Narva and Mpumi Mcata and performance 颅artist Tanja Krone. This project developed out of a series of anthems composed by the musicians for imagined Utopias. 鈥淲e started with the theme of the Utopias we choose in our everyday lives and realities,鈥?said Orecchia. 鈥淭he fantastical elements were informed by this.鈥?
The Utopias tour, which proceeded on foot, by minibus and the Gautrain, started from the dust-clouded Rent-a-Wreck car rental in Doornfontein and proceeded through Jo鈥檅urg鈥檚 inner city.

Discordance and noise

The audience held radios that broadcast Utopian fairy-tale fantasies of the city: an African dress store became a temple, a run-down building decorated in stars of peeling green paint became a cosmic city and a candle-lit and robed figure awaited the audience in the desolate and abandoned ice rink of the Carlton Centre. The catchy United Utopias anthem animated the trip with its refrain that 鈥渞eality is not more than an agreement between seven billion people鈥?

The tour played with the ideas of competing Utopian imaginations in religion, art and politics and the ways in which these visions run aground on the shores of the city. It descended at times, as Utopias do, into discordance and noise.

It ended on the banks of the Jukskei River in Alexandra, where the masked artists sat around a table with crystal glasses and silver plates filled with old bags 鈥?an image of a collapsed Utopia.

Spines as a whole was inventive, often beautiful and unsettling, although at times it became stuck in the traffic of its many ideas.

Cameroonian artist Rapha毛l Christian Etongo鈥檚 performance in an empty Observatory swimming pool 鈥?where he wrestled with a tyre in stagnant water to the lament of vuvuzelas 鈥?created a powerful sense of struggle and discord within the languid suburban garden and linked well to the festival鈥檚 themes of mobility and immobility.

However, another piece by Etongo, performed on another day, was heavy-handed and unnecessarily cruel. In old Chinatown in the inner city, he asked a live chicken and a bloodied doll what they thought of contemporary art before placing the chicken鈥檚 head in his own mouth.

For me, the most effective moment was the collaboration between Boemo babo ntate Bothata singers and dancers, who work as recyclers in the inner city, and German performance artist Johannes Paul Raether.

The recyclers, on the roof of the Fox Street depot where they live and work, sang Sesotho songs of war and games. Their movements among sacks of reclaimed waste were slow and precise, their voices resonant, defying a downpour of rain.

Raether cast a fragile figure on his red high heels, his face painted blue, with butterfly lashes and his teeth blackened. He mirrored the movements of the dancers, softening their warlike gestures.

Raether鈥檚 own costume 鈥?a bricolage of old sportswear 鈥?resonated with the homes and workplace of the recyclers. Together, the performers cast two very different figures of exclusion who had found a transient intimacy and strength with one another through song and 颅movement.

It was a startling and poignant encounter that displaced, recycled and renewed the maps of the city along which the festival ran.

Watch the Spines festival video here: mg.co.za/spines"
"For a long time in South Africa art has always occurred in one of two places: the austere, echoing halls of the gallery or public space. While galleries alienate all but the art set, public art in Johannesburg is seldom challenging or even interesting. X Homes Johannesburg, an international project curated by Christoph Gurk of the Hebbel Am Ufer (HAU) Theatre in Berlin, proposes a third alternative: private homes.

In X Homes Johannesburg, 13 homes in Hillbrow, in the inner city, and Kliptown, Soweto, are transformed into theatres and performance installations for the four days during which the project runs.

Each home hosts one work by one artist or a collaborating team of artists. Paying viewers in each area then walk from home to home to view the works. Surprisingly, Gurk says: 鈥淚t was not that difficult to find people who were willing to work with us.鈥?Having visited Johannesburg three times before in preparation for X Homes, Gurk had the opportunity to 鈥渂uild up trust鈥?with individuals and facilitating institutions in Hillbrow and Kliptown. 鈥淲ith a project like this you can鈥檛 take it for granted that you鈥檙e in people鈥檚 own spaces and they are potentially vulnerable. If we were to try to do this in one of the Northern suburbs, I would assume that it would have been more difficult to convince people to open their homes,鈥?says Gurk.

X Homes boasts a stellar cast of local and international artists from a variety of disciplines. Local visual artists Tracey Rose and Athi-Patra Ruga, and dancer Nelisiwe Xaba are working with German filmmaker Harun Farocki and Canadian artist and filmmaker Bruce LaBruce. Other artists participating in the project include Xoli Norman, Kemang wa Lehulere, Lonwabo Kilani, Manuel Orjuela Cortes and Nelisiwe Xaba. This credit roll, coupled with the support of the Johannesburg Goethe-institut, is sure to attract art lovers in their droves. Hopefully this will go some way to demystifying these areas of Johannesburg, which many local cultural consumers know only at a distance.

鈥淭he message of X Homes鈥? according to a press release, 鈥渋s to change the perception of urban spaces, which many inhabitants of Johannesburg know only from rumours in the media, and to produce images beyond the projection of violence and fear ever present in this country.鈥?
However, it was important to Gurk and his collaborators to create an audience beyond the regular consumers of culture. 鈥淲e鈥檝e had a long discussion about how we create the public for this project,鈥?he says. 鈥淚t鈥檚 very important for us not to rely on a public that is created by cultural events of this kind. Since it is a site-specific project, we are interested in reaching beyond the normal consumers of culture.鈥?
To reach local audiences X Homes Johannesburg offers special rates for Hillbrow and Kliptown residents who want to view the production. There is also a reduced-rate shuttle between Hillbrow and Kliptown, to encourage 鈥渃ommunity exchange鈥?

X Homes Johannesburg runs walking tours in Kliptown and Hillbrow on July 9 and 10 between 12pm and 2.30pm. Tickets cost R70 and must be booked through Computicket. For more information visit the Goethe-institut website: www.goethe.de/johannesburg"
"Photographer Jodi Beiber鈥檚 Soweto (Jacana) is a remarkable achievement and stands out among a crop of books that look, from the outside, into the life of the South African township. Perhaps one should write that as 鈥渢ownship life鈥? to best describe the thing white photographers have, periodically, gone in search of. They go to great lengths to find an image, or a series, that encapsulates the true spirit of the people and the times.

Each one 鈥?whether it was Craig Fraser with his now famous Shack Chic or Swedish photographer Per Englund with The Beautiful Struggle 鈥?takes a deeper foray into the township than the one before. And they return with colourful, priceless gems.

Bieber鈥檚 book is most definitely lighter and more palatable than her previous published work. In 2006 she published Between Dogs and Wolves (Double Storey), a grainy black-and-white exploration of the hazards encountered by lower-class youth from both sides of the colour divide.

The photographs of borderline dilapidation were almost impossible to look at. The hardest were the images of happy, painfully young South Africans playing with real and toy guns. In the middle of the book there was a picture of an abandoned newborn baby in a bucket, floating in blood.

But this is not the world Bieber has chosen to show us this time. No doubt, had she travelled to Soweto to find a horror story one would have been waitng there. Surely, had she gone to Westbury in 2006 to find a sense of communtiy she would also have found that there.

The theme of Soweto is how Sowetans are 鈥渃reating Soweto anew鈥?(to quote the Goethe-institut鈥檚 Peter Anders and Cara Snyman, representatives of the organisation that sponsored Bieber鈥檚 work). The book, then, is an effort to turn away from the controverial image of the Soweto of the past, and any engagement with it has to begin from this point of departure.

The moment of the book鈥檚 appearance aids the creators and sponsors in their plight. This week the world-famous township will, at last, make a gargantuan attempt to move itself forward. It will try to abandon its underdog position as 鈥済hetto鈥?and will attempt to move to a new position as a truly cosmopolitan, although proudly African, neighbourhood.

The faces in Bieber鈥檚 photographs are not those of the embittered, underprivileged township denizens of the past. As Bieber herself descibes them: 鈥淪owetans believe they are at the cutting edge of the trends being set in this country.鈥?
As they stare back at Bieber鈥檚 lens, the new middle class doesn鈥檛 bother to oblige the visiting white woman with a stereotypical Colgate smile. For local white readers, at any rate, Soweto (the book) is a very settling experience indeed.

In this, it seems, it has achieved its goal.

Extracts from the text

Another beautiful Soweto feature, which differs from the Johannesburg suburbs, is that when there is a wedding, funeral or the birthday party of a one-year-old, it is okay to place a tent in the middle of your street because all your neighbours would be invited and everyone fed. The spirit of this for me was admirable. You have to remember, though, that nothing starts dead on time in Soweto. It is a standing joke among the people. One-year-old birthday parties are a big trend in Soweto. The parents have all the possibilities of playing with fantasy for this special day. It can range from a Barbie Doll-themed party to inviting the Jo鈥檅urg fire department to show off their beaming red fire truck. 鈥?Jodi Bieber

A rumour circulated around Soweto that before a game in the olden days Pirates players and the coach used to go to Mpanza鈥檚 grave to perform rituals and ask for luck. Umuthi was commonly used and they would also make white players, such as the goalkeeper and coach Anderson, undergo the same ritual. It is also said that during the 1976 student uprising cars that had an Orlando Pirates sticker on them were not burned, irrespective of who the owner was. Even today you see immaculate, expensive German cars with Orlando Pirates stickers and it is said that this protects you from would-be hijackers because they are likely to be supporters of this legendary Soweto football club. 鈥?Niq Mhlongo"
"A week night in downtown Johannesburg can be desolate. With its dark, disused workshops and derelict petrol stations, the city鈥檚 periphery has the air of an abandoned film set.

But in one scuffed urban block, somewhere between Doornfontein and Troyeville, the lights are on. The smell of hot popcorn lingers in the street. There is a scurry of clinking beer bottles and coins as crowds of Jo鈥檅urg hipsters rush to get tickets for tonight鈥檚 screening at The Bioscope, a new independent cinema in the Maboneng district.

Maboneng, which means 鈥渃ity of light鈥? is the fond nickname for a liminal square of earth on Main Street, where The Bioscope and the chic residential block Main Street Life nestle, propped up against the popular Arts on Main complex. The Bioscope occupies a ground-floor space in the Main Street Life building and is a micro-cinema in the vein of the South African 鈥渂ioscopes鈥?of old.

These were small, independent cinemas frequented in the 1970s and 1980s, before film culture was co-opted by major distribution chains that established cineplexes in shopping malls.

After moving the project around Johannesburg in various forms for three years The Bioscope鈥檚 founders, Russell Grant and Darryl Els, settled on the street-front shop in Main Street Life for its permanent home.

Grant and Els began looking into the possibility of establishing an independent cinema during their final year of drama study at Wits University. Now a reality, The Bioscope bridges a gaping rift between commercial venues, which dominate movie culture in South Africa, and underground film clubs guarded by pundits.

Grant and Els鈥檚 Bioscope is far more accessible than other alternative film clubs, and hardly in competition with the dominant chains, Ster Kinekor and NuMetro.

In the two weeks following its opening on June 8, The Bioscope has screened a dizzying range of old and new releases, including a selection of foreign football documentaries, French novelist Phillippe Claudel鈥檚 I Have Loved You so Long (2008) and Bong Joon-Ho鈥檚 The Host (2006), a monster flick set in Seoul, South Korea.

On my first visit to the cinema, during its opening week, I watched Adi Loveland鈥檚 documentary Unhinged: Surviving Johannesburg, a roughshod guide to loving the city, potholes and all. My heart warmed at stories of familiar sorts of people navigating familiar chaos, and at the comfortable leather seats, relics salvaged from an old church. Soon to join the vintage chairs is a 35mm film projector, a donation from the Goethe-institut.

The entire project 鈥?its ingenuity, its followers, its hand-me-down fittings, its defiance of urban logic 鈥?is a microcosm of how Johannesburg works. And, indeed, the fate of The Bioscope is bound up with the fate of the part of the city it occupies.

Grant and Els are positive about their prospects. 鈥淭he time is just so right,鈥?Grant says. 鈥淭here is excitement around this precinct, around Main Street Life and around Johannesburg. Now is the time to do it.鈥?
鈥淲e鈥檙e telling the rest of Jo鈥檅urg 鈥楾he city is not what you think it is鈥? We have this new independent cinema. This is big and it鈥檚 got great implications for the city,鈥?says Els.

A priority for them is to create a diverse cinema culture in South Africa, catering to the interests of a variety of niche audiences. Months before it was ready to open The Bioscope held a screening in its future venue 鈥?then a construction site. The screened work was In Which Annie Gives It Those Ones (1989), a rare Indian film written by and starring author Arundhati Roy.

鈥淭he audience was packed and 90% Indian,鈥?Grant says. 鈥淚t dawned on us that if we tap into niche audiences people will come. Fordsburg used to have so many cinemas, which have now mostly dwindled away. People in different communities, where there aren鈥檛 many cinemas, are hungry for something like this.鈥?
鈥淭he idea of different people sitting together in a cinema is really exciting,鈥?says Els. 鈥淎nd you鈥檙e just not going to get that in Rosebank Mall or somewhere like that.鈥?
The Bioscope is open every day except Mondays and tickets cost R35. For more information about weekly screenings, visit www.thebioscope.co.za or follow them on Twitter (username: @bioscopetonight)"
"Yinka Olatunbosun

The doors at the Centre for Contemporary Arts Lagos will be open till January 31st as the on-going exhibition titled 鈥楾he ()ther Room鈥?continues to intrigue art lovers in the city. The show done in collaboration with Goethe-institut Nigeria features works by Dandelion Eghosa, Yadichinma Ukoha-Kalu, Taiwo Aiyedogbon. It is a part of the celebrations to mark the 14 years of CCALagos鈥檚 championing contemporary art and culture.

According to the press statement on the show, 鈥楾he Other room鈥?is an interactive exhibition that uses visuals, sound and performance to speak to the different ways in which womxn artists are reconfiguring womanhood in relation to their personal and cultural experiences. In fact, by offering contextualized and fluid narratives that emphasize healing, resilience and memory, restrictive and archaic definitions of what it means to be a womxn 鈥搘hich are so a widely held in a stubbornly patriarchal society- are debunked.鈥欌€?
The term 鈥榳omxn鈥?is deliberately used to acknowledge that womanhood is in flux, shaped by a myriad of lived experiences.

Visitors at the centre would discover conversations from prominent womxn in the arts as part of the 鈥楽peaking for Myself鈥?podcast series in six episodes installed in the library section. In each episode, an influential woman in Nigeria鈥檚 cultural sector- a gallery owner, curator or arts writer-speaks to a womxn artist whose life and work has inspired her The Conversations offers intimate glimpses into individual experiences of womanhood as well as the challenges and joys that these twelve womxn face in their quest to be creative and find meaning in their everyday lives.

In all, the exhibition aims to invoke diverse expressions of womxnhood, the multiplicity of experience and the importance of representation."
"I enrolled at the Goethe-institut, Nigeria to make this dream a reality and I am happy I took that decision as I truly had a wonderful experience at the Institut. Right from the first day with my Language Instructor, I learnt not just the basics of the German Language, but I also got to experience German Culture in its entirety. I attended several cultural shows with some of my amazing friends I had made at the Institute.

Fast forward to when I finally resumed at my University in Osterreich, I didn't have any issue blending in. I can boldly say that it was my experience at Goethe-institut that gave me such an uncommon leverage to relate to German cultural experiences so easily and effortlessly.

If you'll be attending the Goethe-institut anytime soon, trust me, it is definitely an experience worth looking forward to. Take it from someone who attended A1, A2 , B1 and B2 classes.

ADVERTISEMENT

For prospective students,registration is still ongoing! Click here to register or call +234 4145 49 515 for enquiries.

_----_"
"Atelewo Cultural Initiative has celebrated and awarded three old veteran Yoruba authors as a way to mark the 2022 edition of International Mother Language Day (IMLD).

The three veteran Yoruba authors awarded at the event which was held on Friday in the BNI Building at the University of Ibadan are Professor Arinpe Adejumo, Chief Olatunbosun Oladapo and Chief Banjo Akinlabi.

According to Ibrahim Oredola, one of the founders of the organisation, the three veteran Yoruba authors were celebrated as part of the Project O虁gbo虂n虁tari虁gi虁 launched in 2020 to identify, showcase and celebrate old veteran Yoruba authors who have made very great contributions through their works and life activities to Yoruba literature via YouTube documentary series.

鈥淎telewo launched the Ogbontarigi project in the year 2020 inspired by our virtual Yoruba book reading programme. We had read Ee虂gu虂n Ala虂re虂 by Lawuyi Ogunniran and in the post-reading discussion, our community realised how much Yoruba authors are undercelebrated in our community and that鈥檚 when we decided to launch O虁gbo虂n虁tari虁gi虁 as a project to cast a spotlight on selected old Yoruba authors and to showcase their contributions with respect to Yoruba literature and culture to the world. And the first work was done on Baba Lawuyi Ogunniran, who died shortly after the work was done.

鈥淭he project was also launched to inspire younger generations about the feats and works of the selected veteran authors and to also motivate our younger people to want to contribute to the development of Yoruba literature and culture. And for this phase of the project, we appreciate the support of Goethe-institut, Yorubaname.com,鈥?he added.

A few minutes of the three documentaries made on each of the veteran authors were screened at the event followed by award presentations.

In separate remarks, the awardees 鈥?Professor Arinpe Adejumo, veteran Yoruba author, a former Head of Department Linguistics and African Languages, University of Ibadan and the current Deputy Provost, University of Ibadan Post Graduate College; Chief 峄宭atunbosun Oladapo, a veteran poet, playwright and record producer; and Chief Baanj峄?Akinlabi, a veteran Yoruba author and book publisher- commended the organisers and the O虁gbo虂n虁tari虁gi虁 initiative as a needed project to promote the Yoruba language and culture.

The event also featured the award ceremony for the 2nd edition of the Atelewo prize for Yoruba Literature.

Mr Waliyullah Tunde Abiimbola was declared the 2022 overall winner of the competition for his manuscript 鈥極ko 岷竢anko鈥?(a Yoruba translation of Animal Farm by George Orwell) and was awarded a N100,000 cash prize.

Four other finalists were awarded a cash prize of 50,000 each and they include Kafilah Ay峄嵦€ba虂mi Fashola, winner of the drama category for her manuscript titled 鈥淎虁b岷固€ni虂鈥? Ba虂ka虂re虁 Wahab Ta虂i虂wo虁, the winner of the poetry category for his manuscript titled, 鈥淎tewolara Akewi-Akowe; Ani虂fowo峁 Zainab Olu虂wafu虂nmil峄嵦乴a虂, winner of the Prose category for her manuscript titled, 鈥淚gbeyin Owuro鈥? and Abdulkareem Jeleel 峄宭asunkanmi, shortlisted as a runner up and one of the best five works in the competition for his manuscript, 鈥淓wi虁 Ko虁b峄峬峄峧岷固佲€?

IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE"
"Acquisition of a new language is understood to break communication barriers among people across nations by facilitating effective interactions. Language itself is a form of people鈥檚 identity and known to echo culture. Hence, learning a new language is linked to learning a bit of the culture and lifestyle of the native speakers of the language.

Language has been variously defined as a system of communication by written or spoken words, used by the people of a particular country or area. Linguists believe strongly that learning a new language has diverse benefits and advantages, among other proven scientific benefits attributed to bilingualism or multilingualism.

Online sources note that learning to speak a second language could be challenging because learners would be training their brains to do something more complex than memorising new words and their proper pronunciations.

They further stated that a 2014 study titled, 鈥楢ge of language learning shapes brain structure鈥?discovered that the cortical thickness鈥揳ssociated with higher intelligence鈥搊f the bilingual brain was altered when language learning happened later in life, after developing proficiency in the first language.

The study indicated that the later a second language was acquired, the greater the effect on the brain structure increases.

Online sources further noted that the brain of polyglots operated differently than those of unilingual folk, noting that regular use of a second language sharpened many cognitive skills and it was even found to make learners appear more attractive.

A study conducted in Georgetown University Medical Centre, Washington, USA, published in the journal Cerebral Cortex suggested that bilinguals had more grey matter in the executive control region of the brain.

The study indicated, 鈥淚n past decades, much has changed about the understanding of bilingualism. Early on, bilingualism was thought to be a disadvantage because the presence of two vocabularies would lead to delayed language development in children. However, it has since been demonstrated that bilingual individuals perform better compared with monolinguals on tasks that require attention, inhibition and short-term memory, collectively termed 鈥榚xecutive control.鈥欌€?
The grey matter is the region of the brain which contains most of the brain鈥檚 neuronal cell bodies which includes parts of the brain involved in muscle control, and sensory perception such as seeing and hearing, memory, emotions, speech, decision making and self-control.

This proves that people who developed more language skills have unknowingly developed a more powerful brain.

Research proved that other biological and scientific benefits of bilingualism or multilingualism included ability to multitask more naturally, speed in decision making, attention to details and lower risk of onset of memory problems such as Alzheimer鈥檚 disease and dementia.

In his contribution to the issue, a Professor of French at the University of Ilorin, Kwara State, Tunde Ajiboye, stated that an average African was bilingual due to colonialism which imposed a second language.

He clarified between a second and foreign language. First, he explained that a second language was usually the official language spoken in a federal state as a result of colonialism and spoken alongside with a mother-tongue.

The linguist noted, 鈥淎 second language such as English is one imposed by circumstances of education and civilisation. This is because you are a child of colonialism which is ancillary to the mother-tongue whereas a foreign language is one that is learnt out of choice. It is spoken or used because there is an ancillary function to that which is require for one to move forward.鈥欌€?
He added that learning a foreign language was always tied to socio-economic necessities and the need to advance forward or have an edge over others in one area or the other especially in career development.

He further stated that to learn a foreign language successfully, one must be motivated because there was usually no element of compulsion associated with a foreign language compared to a second language.

Related News

On challenges connected with learning a foreign language, the lecturer identified phonetics of a new language as an aspect to be mastered, adding that spoken form doesn鈥檛 always have the same sound as written form. He stated that alphabets don鈥檛 necessarily sound the same way in different languages.

He suggested that the time required to attain mastery in a language could be dependent on age, time allocated for the language daily, and aspects of the language to be learnt including its written and oral parts.

Ajiboye also stated that immersion by learning was the best way to attain fluency within a short time in learning a foreign language.

The lecturer said, 鈥淚 started learning German when I was in the university and the German I learnt I can say was purified when I went to Germany. I was in Germany for three months and it seemed to be one year because I had no reason to speak any other language than German except in situations where I met friends from Nigeria. That鈥檚 the beauty of immersion and I have always been in support of such process.鈥欌€?
Also, a Professor of Applied Linguistics at the Faculty of Arts, Bayero University, Kano, Kamal Aliyu, stated that the availability of good language teachers was a major challenge. He further identified the importance of good materials and modern infrastructure to aid learning.

The lecturer advised learners to imbibe the habit of constant practice.

Aliyu said, 鈥淭he rule is practice. The language must always be in constant touch with the learners. Watch TV and listen to radio programmes presented in new languages. Read the language on a regular basis especially through novels and newspapers. Try personal writing in the new language.鈥?
He said language strengthens interpersonal skills and helps people connect with new contacts easily.

He added that it could help one to connect easily in a foreign land since foreigners love to embrace their native language and place it in high esteem.

On her part, the Institute Director, Goethe-institut; German Institute for Language and Culture, Lagos, Dr Nadine Siegert, harped on the benefits of learning a foreign language.

The linguist said, 鈥淚t opens a new way for one and equips the brain, making one more curious and open to the world. There are also study opportunities abroad especially in regions of the world where the language is being spoken. It also assists in making new friends and exploring new opportunities.鈥?
Siegert stated that the challenges of learning some foreign languages such as German could be a bit complex in grammar and word structure, noting however that with good language teachers, learning them would be fun.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]"
"MOVIES

Yinka Olatunbosun

The Festival of Forgotten Films, an international Film festival is set to unearth outstanding films using the unique power of archival footage to drive their narrative. Ultimately, the goal is to raise key issues such as the relationship between archives, films and festivals and the impact of digital technologies.

With renewed efforts to rediscover Nigerian and African Cinema this July, the Lagos Film Society in collaboration with Modern Art Film Archive will present the 50-year old Things Fall Apart (1971) by Jason Pohland which was rediscovered from the Deutsche Kinemathek in Berlin at the Nigerian Film Corporation, Ikoyi on July 31. On August 1, Kongi鈥檚 Harvest (1970) by Ossie Davis will be screened alongside

Independencia (2015) by Mario Bastos, Spell Reel (2017) by Filipa Cesar and Handsworth Song (1987) by John Akomfrah. A special tribute will be given to late Nigerian film director and producer, Eddie Ugbomah on August 7 at the same venue with the theme 鈥淭he Films of Eddie Ugbomah鈥? The legendary filmmaker directed and produced films such as the Rise and Fall of Oyenusi in 1979, The Boy is Good and Apalara, a film about the life and murder of Alfa Apalara in Oko Awo, Lagos. The plot of some of his films are loosely based on real life events.

The film screenings would be accompanied by open-air exhibition as a large-scale installation around the lively Tinubu Square.

This out-door exhibition has as curators the Berlin-based Akinbode Akinbiyi, a renowned photographer and Gisela Kayser, the Managing Director, Freundeskreis Willy-Brandt-Haus in Germany.

The Festival of Forgotten Films is directed by Didi Cheeka, the co-founder of Lagos Film Society. Cheeka curated the first international archive workshop, 鈥淩eclaiming History, Unveiling Memory鈥?with the support of Goethe-institut Nigeria and the British Council, Lagos. He is an active participant in the on-going discourse and actions to decolonise the archive and restructure power relations in the use and access to colonial audio-visual materials."
SELAMAT BERMAIN DI SLOT95 SEBAGAI SITUS JUDI SLOT ONLINE TERBAIK DAN TERPERCAYA NO 1 DI INDONESIA PALING GAMPANG MENANG MAXWIN
"A former Deputy Director, University College Hospital, Ibadan, 70-year-old Otunba Iyabo Alabi, tells OLUFEMI OLANIYI about her decision to study nursing and love for climbing trees, among other events in her life

Where were you born and what was growing up like?

I was born on July 12, 1950 at Mercy Hospital, Itafaji, Lagos State. My father was Alhaji Salawu Aderonmu and my mother鈥檚 name was Alhaja Sariyu Alatede. I have two siblings from my mother and I have seven siblings from my father.

Which school did you attend?

My first school was Children鈥檚 Home School, Oke Ado, in Ibadan, Oyo State. I also attended NTC Primary School, Oke Ado. After that, my mother took me to Alafia Institute, Mokola, Ibadan and I was in boarding school throughout. Then I left Alafia Institute to Yejide Girls Grammar School. I was also in boarding school there; in fact, I never stayed at home. I was in boarding school throughout.

Why was that?

Maybe because I was troublesome, right from my primary school days; I think they took me to boarding school to tame me. When I left Yejide Grammar School, I went to Adeola Odutola for my Higher School Certificate but I did not finish there. After, I went to Goethe-institut in Hamburg, Western Germany, to study Dutch. After spending about two years there, I decided to leave.

Why?

I realised that if I had to study with the German language, I would have a problem when I returned to Nigeria. I would not know how to deal with the problem because everything would be taught to me in German. How would I have been translating it into English when I returned? I went to the United States and, luckily for me, I had an uncle there, a diplomat. He was the consul in charge of education, Mr Bayo Oladapo. He is dead now. He got a school for me and my mummy paid.

I realised that I would have a problem when I got back to Nigeria because I knew it would be difficult to get a job if I trained as a nurse in Germany. So, I moved to the US to avoid that. In Germany, they didn鈥檛 teach their children the English Language; everything was taught in German. They so much appreciate their language and (I felt) that would affect me later.

Did you have any difficulty learning German?

No, I didn鈥檛 have any difficulty. In fact, I loved the language and I was the best student in the class.

Do you mean you were better than Germans with their own language?

No. I didn鈥檛 beat the Germans, but among Africans, I was the best. I learnt the language very fast.

What did you read in the US?

I decided to read Dietetics.

Why did you change your mind about nursing?

I just changed. My mother didn鈥檛 even like nursing. And again, I am really scared of dead bodies. You know that you cannot study nursing without seeing dead bodies. In fact, right from the school, you would be taken to the mortuary to see dead bodies. But dietetics is not like nursing; you don鈥檛 see dead bodies all the time. You don鈥檛 deal with dead bodies, so I decided to study Nutrition and Dietetics, although it was not common in Nigeria as of that time. I went to the New York Institute of Dietetics, where I spent one year for a diploma. For my degree, I went to Pratt Institute, Brooklyn, New York. It is an expensive school, owned by the Jews. Majority of us, Nigerians, in the school were Hausa and they were there on scholarships. The Yoruba were few because only the rich could afford to send their children there, but my mother sponsored me. When I graduated in 1977, I went to New York University for my master鈥檚 degree.

But did your mum not feel bad that you abandoned nursing for dietetics?

She didn鈥檛 feel anything. She was at Gbagada Market selling fabrics. She was okay with anything I did, provided it was not something bad. NYU was also a very expensive school and my mum still sponsored me. It was much more expensive than the Pratt Institute. I graduated in February 1979 and stayed back in New York for two years because, when you finished, immigration would give you two years to practise.

What happened after that?

I came back to Nigeria in 1982. I was told that I would serve for one year under the National Youth Service Corps. My 鈥榯win鈥?sister knew Chief (Folorunso) Kila, who was the Director General of the NYSC then, and she told him that I wanted to serve in University College Hospital, Ibadan. They so much loved me there because I was not just learning; I had worked in New York and I brought the experience gained to UCH.

Were you retained after your NYSC programme?

I thought they would give me job after that but they did not. I didn鈥檛 want to go to Lagos; I wanted to stay in Ibadan, but UCH did not employ me. Despite knowing influential people, I couldn鈥檛 get a job there. I applied and filled eight forms to no avail. I went to the US to have my second child and returned later. One day, I was told Prof (Benjamin) Osuntokun wanted to see me. Prof Osuntokun of blessed memory was a nice man. I went to UCH and he said, 鈥榊ou went to NYU.鈥?He said NYU was a very good school. He told me that he had affiliation to the university. He then asked, 鈥楧idn鈥檛 you want to work here?鈥?I said I wanted to but I was not given a job. I told him how I filled several forms and nothing came of it. He then instructed somebody to go and look for my forms but they couldn鈥檛 find them.

He told the man to go and bring a new form and I filled it right there inside his office. He didn鈥檛 know me from anywhere. He just saw in my file that I served there. Was that not a miracle? It was later I knew that my father had helped his brother in Jos. My father was working with Nigeria Railway Corporation and Prof Osuntokun鈥檚 brother wanted to come to Ibadan by train, but he had difficulties with his luggage. My father helped him and you see how the man鈥檚 brother helped me, unknowingly. After filling the form, he said I should follow the man he sent to give the form to a lady who was the Director of Administration at UCH. When we got there, I stayed outside and the man took my form inside to the woman (DA). When he came out, I asked if the woman had signed the form but he told me that the woman threw my form away. I went back to Prof Osuntokun and told him what the man said. Prof called the Deputy DA and that one signed it and I started work the following week with my newborn. It was a miracle.

You said you were troublesome as a child鈥?
Yes, I was very troublesome. I loved climbing trees and plucking fruits. We had an almond tree at our house in Oke Bola. I would climbed the tree and pluck the fruits, while Bimbola Aboderin and Gbeminiyi Smith would gather them on the ground. I was warned on many occasions not to climb trees but I didn鈥檛 listen. One day, a lizard fell on my head while in the tree and I thought it was a snake. You should have seen the way I jumped down; I never climbed trees after that. I was nice but adventurous. I also loved singing, dancing and action. When I was at Yejide, we went to Benin to sing and act for the then Oba of Benin. But I was taken to boarding school because I was troublesome.

Were your parents disciplinarians?

I didn鈥檛 live with my father. I lived with my mother and grandmother and they were very strict. Everybody knew them; Mama Alatede Aboderin and my mum were very strict. Those two women were so strict. My mother used to beat me with koboko (horsewhip) and, after some time, I became used to it; it no longer pained me. But they gave me everything I wanted, though they did not spoil me. I wore good clothes; I really enjoyed my childhood. Because of them, I did not have any boyfriend throughout my secondary school. The boyfriend I had was after my secondary school and, just six months after, I travelled abroad.

So, despite their discipline, you were still troublesome, climbing trees?

Yes, they kept beating me, but I became used to it. That was why they took me to boarding school; it was to tame me.

You rose to the position of a deputy director. What were the challenges that came with that responsibility?

I thank God because I was the first dietician to rise to the position of a deputy director. I just did my work and I was myself.

Did anybody doubt your leadership capacity?

In fact, God really led me. When I was the head of department, Prof Abiodun Ilesanmi came on as the Chief Medical Director before my boss left. When I was the HOD, we faced many challenges while Prof Ilesanmi was carrying out many changes. He brought a fast food outlet into UCH and dismantled the carpenting department. You know that fast food is not good for patients but he brought it to UCH. I was having difficulty with him and we clashed. Dieticians were counselling patients to avoid junk food and the CMD brought an outlet into the hospital. He knew I would not take no for an answer and he used to call me a tough woman. At times, I would not leave work until 11pm. I would carry the food to patients in the Intensive Care Unit by myself at night. Whenever I knew I was on the right path, I didn鈥檛 bend.

What were the qualities of your husband that endeared him to you?

I am married to Otunba Clement Ajibola Alabi. He is a nice man. He is reserved and doesn鈥檛 get angry. But if he gets angry once, you won鈥檛 like him. He is loving and caring. We have two children together, who are now men living in the US. He鈥檚 a very responsible father.

READ ALSO: Bar Obasanjo, Wike from speaking at conference, Muslim lawyers tell NBA

How did you meet him?

We met in New York through a friend. We were both students when we met. We met through a friend, Bola, of blessed memory. My husband is a Catholic and I am Anglican but I became a Catholic because of him and I have no regret. Catholic doctrines just blend with my upbringing of honesty. There are certain things a Catholic is not expected to do, like telling lies, being frivolous or getting divorced, among others.

How do you relax as a retiree?

I don鈥檛 relax. I am always busy; I have always been active from my childhood. I have church meetings and programmes. I counsel clients of my friend who has a massage business. We in the Aboderin family celebrate a lot because it is a large family and I always travel to Lagos because of these celebrations. You would think I live in Lagos.

Do you engage in any sporting activity?

No, but I walk round this building between 40 minutes and one hour every day. That is what I do to keep fit. I also do breathing exercises. I do my chores myself. I am not used to hiring housemaids. When visitors come, I cook and wash the dishes. I am used to it.

Can you recall any memorable event while growing up?

My first and second graduations, when I was delivered of my first baby; and when I became a US citizen. Also, my 70th birthday on July 12 was a memorable event, despite the coronavirus. We had a Zoom party and about 400 people attended from Britain, Canada, the US and everywhere else we have relatives and friends. I had a reception here and people came but we made sure we observed social distancing. On my birthday, Mrs (Bola) Ogunshola brought trumpeters and drummers as early as 7am and I didn鈥檛 even know they were singing for me when I heard the sound outside the gate, I had to change out of my nightwear and go outside.

There are good and bad (memories). When I completed my master鈥檚, the NYU wrote to me saying I had completed my studies. One night, I got off the train on my way home and I saw a guy behind me. He was wearing gloves and it was summertime, so I was on alert. Someone wearing gloves in the summer suggests something, so I was ready. Immediately I opened the door to the building and entered, he also entered as if he lived in the building, so there was no problem. When I saw him coming after me, I decided not to climb up the stairs but to use the elevator. I didn鈥檛 know he could see the floor I was going to because of the elevator button I pressed. Beside our door, there was another door where you could dispose of your garbage. I did not know he had entered that garbage room and was hiding there. When I got off the elevator, I had to put down the things I was carrying before I opened the door to my apartment.

This guy suddenly emerged and grabbed me from behind, pointing a long, sharp knife at my throat. He threatened to stick the knife in my throat if I shouted for help and took me to the elevator, but it was busy. He was waiting for the elevator to come so that he could force me inside. While waiting, I also had my two hands on the knife but I didn鈥檛 struggle. I later realised that my hands were touching the handle of the knife. I quickly grabbed the knife from him and God saved me. It was so quick; he wasn鈥檛 expecting it. He thought I was an American because an American would not do what I did. That was how I collected the knife from him and he ran. I threw the knife at the back of his head and it got him. He started bleeding but he came back. I called my neighbours and they asked me to come (in) without knowing that he had already attacked me. God saved me. If the elevator was not busy, he would have taken me to the basement and raped me. He would thereafter have killed me because he didn鈥檛 cover his face and he would not want me to identify him. I called Uncle Olu that night and he said we should go back to Nigeria. That was how God saved me.

Also, we lost two close persons last year, which was devastating. My 鈥榯win鈥?sister died. We were named Ibeji Alatede because we were given birth to on the same day by two sisters. Our grandmother named us Ibeji Alatede. She was born in the morning and I was born in the evening.

I thank God because the people in my family love me so much. Uncle Jibola (The Chairman, Continental Reinsurance Plc and a former Chairman, Punch Nigeria Limited, Chief Ajibola Ogunshola) named me the 鈥楥ustodian of History鈥?because any time they were looking for a photograph, I would provide the old pictures of my grandmother and great-grandmother. Also, I don鈥檛 forget things. They call me Alajobi because I coordinate so many things. I live in Ibadan, but you would see me in Lagos often and some think I live in Lagos. I was the one doing alaga (master of ceremony) for the family anytime we had a ceremony. I have done it more than 30 times. I am also Otunba in Oke Agbo, Ijebu Igbo. My late twin sister鈥檚 husband was an Oba there and he gave us chieftaincy titles. My twin sister died and shortly after, Kabiyesi also died.

Were there things that really made you excited as a child?

We used to live at Oke Bola when I was young and our baba, Mama Alatede鈥檚 firstborn, Chief Moyo Aboderin, was a politician. He belonged to the class of those good politicians back then. As a child, (Chief Samuel Ladoke) Akintola, Chief Obafemi Awolowo and Alhaji Tafawa Balewa would come to Oke Bola and I knew them. They would come to our house to see my uncle and this really excited me. It was as if I saw God. Also, the then Olota of Ota, Oba T.T. Dada, would come to our house to spend one week with Mama. I would eat with Kabiyesi and my mother would ask me not to go to Kabiyesi鈥檚 room but I would still go and he enjoyed my company. Those things made me so excited.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.

Contact: [email protected]"
"Yinka Olatunbosun

The Goethe-institut Nigeria and the Alliance Fran莽aise de Lagos are collaborating to join in the worldwide screening of the documentary film SHOAH by Claude Lanzmann on Monday January 27. Organised by the lnternationaleLiteraturfestival Berlin, this film screening is to commemorate the 75th anniversary of the liberation of the Nazi concentration camp Auschwitz-Birkenau on 27 January 1945.

Lagos movie buffs will binge on this tear-jerking movie with an unprecedented length of 9陆 hours. It will be screened in 4 Parts with Parts 1 to 3 starting with brief introductions, providing some historical contextualization. Before the screening of Part 4, the Nigerian historian and filmmaker, Ed Keazor, will talk about different aspects of the documentary.

In the 9陆-hour film both surviving victims and perpetrators of the systematic extermination of Jews by the German Reich have a chance to speak.

According to Claude Lanzmann 鈥?who worked on the film for eleven years (1974-1985) 鈥淪hoah鈥?is not a film about survival but a 鈥渢estimonial of death鈥? It not only asks the witnesses to recall their experiences. Lanzmann鈥檚 questioning technique prompts his interviewees to relive the past events. His questions revolve around events at the sites where Jews were murdered such as Chelmno, Treblinka, Auschwitz-Birkenauand the Warsaw Ghetto, laying open the bureaucratic mechanism of extermination.

Claude Lanzmann (1925鈥?018) was one of the great French filmmakers and intellectuals: Resistance fighter in World War II, lecturer at the FU Berlin at the end of the 1940s, employee (and later editor) of the Les Temps Modernes magazine founded by Jean-Paul Sartre at the beginning of the 1950s, participant in the resistance against the Algerian war 鈥?these are only some of the important stages of his life before he turned to documentary film in the early 1970s. His autobiography 鈥淭he Patagonian Hare鈥?(2010) uniquely condenses the events of his life.

Second Filler

Triple Threat, Sway The Baba Drops a Debut EP鈥淟ooking For Trouble鈥欌€?
The Nigerian music scene is a beautiful collage of veterans as well as emerging artists with the latter increasing in number daily. One of these is Sway the Baba (Enyi Okpo). The Producer, rapper and songwriter has hit the air waves with his first official EP titled, 鈥淟ooking for Trouble鈥?rocking the streaming platforms.

With a fusion of Afro-beat and the American Hip Hop culture, he unveils his dynamic style and versatility inspired by artists such as the Legendary Fela Kuti, 50 Cent, Lil Wayne, Kanye West, DMX amongst others.

The project is seven tracks deep, all written and produced by the triple threat. It gives a glimpse of his immense talent with Sway showing a more vulnerable side to himself on the simmering opening track, 鈥淏eside Me.鈥?Another banger, 鈥淏aby鈥?showcases his smooth and fluid flows in celebrating women globally. Inspired and based on true events, 鈥淪ay No to Being Broke berates poverty.鈥?
Other mega tunes from the amazing EP include 鈥淲ith You,鈥濃€淵NG,鈥?鈥淧roblem鈥?and 鈥淐ome Through.鈥?Contrary to its title, 鈥淟ooking for Trouble鈥?undoubtedly translates to being the best version of one鈥檚 self and staying true without wavering."
"Publiseer Selected For The AYADA Lab Program

The digital distribution platform, Publiseer, has been selected to take part in the AYADA Lab program, which effectively started on October 11, 2019, and ends on April 2020. This came after its participation in the local workshops organized by AYADA Lab. On November 7 to 9, all 25 selected startups, the AYADA Lab partners and other actors of the world of cultural, creative and social entrepreneurship in Africa will gather for a meeting in Lagos, Nigeria, at the Lagos Creative Enterprise Week.

In Chidi Nwaogu鈥檚 tweet on October 16, he wrote: 鈥淭oday, I received an email welcoming my startup, Publiseer, into the AYADA Lab program.鈥?AYADA Lab is an incubation and acceleration program of the Goethe-institut and the Institut fran莽ais in five West African countries: Cameroon, C么te d鈥橧voire, Ghana, Nigeria, and Senegal. AYADA Lab supports young West African startups through mentoring, workshops and networking meetings. At the end of the program, it provides each young entrepreneur with 3,000 Euros as seed-funding. For this year, AYADA Lab plans to support 25 young West African entrepreneurs.

The goals of the program are to develop viable cultural, creative and social start-ups in West Africa, and support the structure and the diversification of the entrepreneurial landscape in the field of cultural, creative industries in West Africa. The program also aims to promote the exchange of regional expertise and train young West African actors from the cultural and creative industries to develop regional and international visions for their businesses.

Publiseer lets independent African writers, musicians, and filmmakers to publish, protect, promote and monetize their creative works on over 400 partner stores in 100 countries, at no charge, with a single click. When a unit of any work (book, audiobook, song, music video, and short or feature film) is sold, Publiseer takes 25% of the revenue generated. The partner stores include Amazon, Barnes & Noble, Spotify, iTunes, NetFlix, and iFlix. These Creatives can monitor their performance across all stores using our centralized dashboard, and receive their royalties via their local bank account or mobile money wallet, which are convenient and risk-free."
"Yinka Olatunbosun writes that the 2019 edition of ART X Lagos is a wholesome gathering that has broken the barrier of culture and nationality to make authentic statements on contemporary African art

VISUAL ARTS

Art aficionados are on a roller-coaster ride through countries across Africa and beyond through the works of artists and galleries present at this edition of West Africa鈥檚 premier art fair, Art X Lagos. Away from its traditional venue, the fun is only heightened at its new spot, the Federal Palace Hotel and Casino grounds in Victoria Island, Lagos. The event has remained a simmering pot of artistic offerings that are fresh, contemporary and impactful.

Positioning itself, not just as an art and multi-cultural event, Art X Lagos is a refreshing family event and it is more interesting as it gives room for graffiti, interactive media art, video art and the thrilling experience with the virtual reality world. The atmosphere of controlled audience allows each one to engage with the works and some of the artists.

For this 2019 edition, the exhibiting galleries include Addis Fine Art (Ethiopia), Afri Art Gallery (Uganda), Arthouse- The Space (Nigeria), Artyrama (Nigeria), Circle Art Gallery (Kenya), Ed Cross Fine Art (UK), Everard Read (SA), Galerie Cecile Fakhoury (Cote d鈥橧voire), Galerie MAM Douala (Cameroon), Galerie Voss (Germany), Gallery 1957 (Ghana), Goodman Gallery (South Africa), Nike Art Gallery (Nigeria), OOA Contemporary Art Gallery (Spain), Retro Africa (Nigeria), SMAC Gallery (South Africa), SMO Contemporary Art (Nigeria), TAFETA (United Kingdom), Thought Pyramid Art Centre (Nigeria), Tiwani Contemporary (United Kingdom) Bloom Art (Nigeria) and Mydrim Gallery.

It is common to find the same people coming into the fair for the two days, because with the number of visitors around, it is hard to spend enough time with the works. Sometimes, the opportunity to see artists and curators, especially the globe-trotting ones, is just at the fair. Fancy running into the Nigeria-born Abe Odedina, who left Nigeria to study as an architect but has only returned to his homeland as an artist.

鈥淚t wasn鈥檛 until a trip to Brazil when I saw the vigour of the popular art that started a series of change in me that led to the idea of wanting to make art directly,鈥?he explained.

Speaking on what informs his work and how he engages the viewer, he added: 鈥淎 central part of my practice is trying to find a legitimate way to communicate. When you look at my work, you feel you can get to grips with it that it opens up in front of you.鈥?
For Ayesha Feisal, capturing the essence and the spirit is the focus of her work.

鈥淚 do that through the use of colour to capture light within the works,鈥?the artist said.

Soaked in the world of his works, Evans Mbugua is very people-centred and this is reflected in his artistic style.

鈥淢y artistic expression is inspired by people who I live with, the people I meet. I want to celebrate these people,鈥?he said.

But he is not the only one who is inspired by his society, Boris Nzebo also maintained that 鈥渁rt means learning to reinvent everything. It鈥檚 a way to observe our environment and surroundings.鈥?
Another artist, Othman Wahaab, vents his anger in a creative way. 鈥淧eople have different capacity on how they acquire things,鈥?he said. 鈥淲hen I am angry, I work better, it affects my work. I think we are born artists. We all have the capacity to express ourselves through one medium or another.鈥?
For the Access Bank Art X Prize winner, it will be a case of 鈥淎ll Eyes on Me鈥?as she will be showing for the first time, the amazing winning work, a multi-media piece titled, 鈥淚t Is All in My Head鈥?in the 2020 edition of the Art X Lagos. Etinosa is a self-taught documentary photographer, based in Abuja. Originally from Benin City, Etinosa considers photography as a medium of expression; a tool to drive social change and well, a hobby-turned work. Etinosa leverages on the power of visual storytelling to create awareness, educate and inform people about causes and issues she is passionate about.

鈥淚t explores the coping mechanisms of survivors of terrorism and violent conflicts in Nigeria. I use the project to advocate for a long-term access to psycho-social support for the victims which will in turn improve their mental health,鈥欌€?she began.

Drawing upon a documentary film on a serial refugee living in Jordan, Etinosa realised that many victims of violent conflicts deal with trauma and are often misunderstood. After watching the documentary, she drew a parallel between what the docu-drama treated and what is happening in some parts of Nigeria.

Some of the exhibiting galleries have set the internet abuzz with colourful pieces such as the one from the Beninese artist, Moufouli Bello whose paintings address the representation of the black woman and question the gendered society in Benin.

SMO Contemporary Art also brings back to his root, Emeka Udemba who runs a vibrant art studio in Germany. Udemba has exhibited in Switzerland, Germany, France, Spain, Austria, Italy, Iran, Brazil, South Africa, Nigeria and Indonesia. Perhaps, he is best remembered as the curator for the Molue Mobile Museum of Contemporary Arts in partnership with Goethe-institut.

Another artist whose works are on display at the SMO Contemporary Art booth is Data Oruwari. Data is a Nigerian-raised and Brooklyn-based visual artist, creative strategy consultant, user experience designer and energy healing enthusiast.

鈥淚 combine my interests in the healing arts with my love for the visual arts to create highly-detailed, hand-rendered sacred works of art that serve to heal and reconnect humanity with spirituality from an African perspective,鈥?she explained on her webpage. 鈥淚 draw inspiration from African mythology, the visionary art movement and contemporary tattoo dot work techniques.鈥?
Meanwhile, SMO Contemporary Art has an electronic catalogue, in which information on the artists and their works can easily be accessed.

Bronze pieces aficionados would love the Mydrim Gallery鈥檚 offering of Ayobami Barber鈥檚 piece, 鈥淥la Edu I鈥?at the newly added ART X Modern section. Bringing nolstagia to the fair, Mydrim is also parading some works by one of the most influential African painters and sculptors in 20th century, Ben Enwonwu and the master artist, Demas Nwoko and of course a founding member of the Zaria Art Society, Yusuf Grillo.

This year鈥檚 edition has witnessed an increase in the number of participating galleries with 23 larger booths. At the Contemporary section of the fair, the works of Jimoh Braimoh, Ngozi Schommers, Kassou Seydou and Kehinde Balogun. ART X Talks will wrap up today with the theme, 鈥淐ollective Live鈥?featuring Reni Folawiyo (collector) and Kathryn Weir (curator). Also, in memory of the first curator of Art X Lagos, Bisi Silva, the second session, titled, 鈥淭he Progress of Love: Bisi Silva Remembered鈥?will feature Antawan Byrd, N鈥橤one Fall and Emeka Ogboh. Away from the exhibits and artists, the food court is a blend of local and international cuisine this year.

The interactive project exploring the theme, 鈥淧lay鈥?inside the Balmoral Hall of the Federal Palace is curated by A Whitespace Creative Agency."
"Aderemi Adegbite is a multimedia artist born and raised in Iwaya community, Lagos. As an interdisciplinary artist, Aderemi鈥檚 current focus questions individual realities and truths that stretch across the societal fabric as constants for an elastic socio-system. Recently, his project in Iwaya community has faced a series of vandalisation. In this chat, he narrates his travails to GREGORY AUSTIN NWAKUNOR, Arts and Culture Editor.

Aderemi Adegbite pulls up a chair. A few of his colleagues sit by his side, chattering and expressing anguish. Another colleague walks in. He gently stands, tottering unsteadily as his thin frame rises in the afternoon light.

On four different occasions, his project in Iwaya community has been vandalised, all because some people want money.

Aderemi threads his way toward the Communal Re-Imagination Workstation, where he stops in the doorframe leading to the outer space. He grabs the door handle, hesitates for the briefest of moments and pulls the door open. He steps outside.

But Aderemi is overcome by an urge to fight back.

鈥淲hat have we done to deserve this fate?鈥?he asks.

He has been Culture Projects Manager over a decade and has served in various capacities, which rub off on his experience.

To his credit, he has produced and coordinated several arts and literary events, which include Poetry Potter, Lagos Poetry Festival, WordSlam, African Art and Craft Expo 2009, National Festival of Arts and Culture 2009, GTBank Poetry Festival, Fashion Revolution and Fashion Revolution Reloaded.

He has also taken part in stage drama like, Beyond the Sunset, Oya, and Saint Dominic alongside actors such as, Kate Henshaw, Kelvin Ushie and Jude Orhorha. He was a member of the delegates invited to Berlin-Germany in 2009 by the Goethe-institut for the Visiting Programme 鈥?an art exchange programme.



Iwaya Community

Iwaya community, a coastline settlement in Lagos, was known to be hoodlum ridden community, as a bunch of young people who came from challenged homes, dropped out of school and dropped out vocational training terrorised everybody.

In 2015, Aderemi started his community art projects as an alternative engagement for the young people to see and choose alternative means of life through art. In 2016, he created a community-based international art festival to help the youth shun violence and embrace art.

The international artists invited for Iwaya Community Art Festival, for one month, lived and carried out research in collaboration with the youth in the community.

Between 2016 and 2018, the festival had hosted 13 international artists from Africa, Europe, South America and Middle East.

鈥淚 created this project to show young people that there are other means of making life meaningful,鈥?he says.

鈥淚 am frustrated with this continuous attacks on the space of learning and art laboratory. I need all help I can get to win this battle with the migrant section of Iwaya community.鈥?
鈥淚鈥檓 in pain. It is really bad,鈥?he says. 鈥淚t hurts when genuine efforts are destroyed.鈥?
Since August till date, the Workstation of Communal Re-Imagination has been attacked four times. 鈥淭he first two vandalisation were done on October 24 and 25, 2018, two days consecutively,鈥?he says, angrily.

He pauses.

Aderemi slips behind the door and steps into a pool of light outside.

Pointing at the gaping hole in the ceiling. He imagines what it looks like.

鈥淪ome people broke into The Workstation of Communal Re-Imagination project through the windows and ceilings. They stole bead works created by the participants, a lot of materials for the bead workshop and the paints bought for the space,鈥?he says.

Still furious.

鈥淚 reported the situation to two of the three baale (chiefs, sectional community leaders) who are fully aware of the project from the inception and they said they were going to do something about it, but they didn鈥檛.鈥?
After two days, he reported the case to the higher community authority, which is the Oba-in-Council (King-in-Council).

The three baale were summoned to the palace and they were spoken to about the project and the problem of theft.

鈥淭he two baale that attended the meeting said to the King that before they could reckon with the project: the Workstation, I must pay N500,000 to them as bribe,鈥?he blurts out. 鈥淢y response was that the project was conceived and created for the community to augment what the community leaders are doing in the community by rechanneling the untamed youth energy in the community through art.鈥?
Face stern and angry, Aderemi wonders if it was something he missed, some sign that things weren鈥檛 right. 鈥淭hey all said they understood the motive behind the project, but I still must make the payment for them to fully endorse the project. I made them realise that the funding received from Prince Claus Fund has been used to build the space just, so it could be useful for the project and as well the community. But they were adamant,鈥?he says.

Project Consultation

At the beginning of the project, he met with the Oba-in-Council (King-in-Council) to inform them about the grant and what the project was all about. 鈥淚 was asked series of questions by the King and the chiefs present at the meeting,鈥?he reveals.

鈥淚 explained to them in details all about the project phases and payment procedures by the funding organisation 鈥?Prince Claus Fund. Their major concern at that time was about raising fund to build a proper space for the school project and the property that could be used. This was because there is no community owned property in Iwaya community.鈥?
Some of them highlighted the fact that there is no community cultural centre and, therefore, it would stress the fund meant for the project, because a lot of unforeseen payments have to be made.

There was silence.

Then, a few minutes into the silence, he had to be blunt. 鈥淚 assured them that I already have a space I started developing four years ago but couldn鈥檛 develop it beyond foundation level and it will be used for the workstation, which will be built as a multipurpose space where the alternative art school project will take place and other community events. And the workstation was built to that purpose.鈥?
In September 2018, there was Iwaya community celebration; 鈥淚 was made the Chair-of-Art/Cultural events. The workstation was used for all rehearsals and meetings for the regatta event that was part of Iwaya community day celebration. And all the chiefs visited The Workstation during this event in September 2018,鈥?he says.

The Latest Attacks

On November 13, 2018, when he and his team arrived at the workstation, they realised that some of the books in the library were missing. The project manager of Communal Re-Imagination, Taiwo Ayiedogbon, asked every participant if they took some of the books home for research, and they all said no.

鈥淪o, we were disturbed by the number of books that were missing on the book shelves. We searched every corner of The Workstation and saw some book covers in the dustbin bag. It was appalling the number of books that had been destroyed overnight. The contents of the books were taken away and the covers were dumped in the dustbin.鈥?
He wept.

Suddenly, he went to the palace to inform the Oba-in-Council about recent attack. They were equally disturbed and frustrated but advised him against reporting the attack to the police.

鈥淭he king said a formal report at the police station will not solve the problem, because the workstation was built in a volatile section of the community, where the police will not even bother themselves to go to,鈥?Aderemi says.

He continues, 鈥渢he king told me that all I must do to have a lasting solution to the attacks, was to make sure I raise the money those Baale (sectional community leaders) demanded from me at the previous meetings.

Although, I argued and made them realised that I do not have any money left to give to anybody, but the King said that he only gave me a sincere opinion on how best to resolve the attacks, because he likes me and he is interested in my projects as they are community based and support his efforts and other well-meaning community leaders in curbing misdemeanor of young people in Iwaya community.鈥?
On January 29, Aderemi received a call from The Workstation manager, Olufela Omokeko, that the library has been once again attacked and almost all the books destroyed this time and covers thrown outside The Workstation.

He says, 鈥渋t is now clear that those that are attacking the workstation and vandalising the books and materials and art works are on a mission. Their intent is to stop us from using the space for the purpose for which it was built, which is education. They know that without the books and materials we will not be able to do anything and thereby, frustrated.鈥?
Aderemi created and curated a monthly literary art project, Poetry Potter, between 2006 and 2010.

Also, in collaboration with the Centre for Contemporary Art Lagos (CCA Lagos), he initiated and curated P.A.G.E.S 鈥?a project that serves as the confluence of literature and visual art. Between 2012 and 2013, Aderemi joined the travelling exhibition 鈥?Africa: See You, See Me 鈥?where he worked as an assistant to the Curator, Professor Awam Amkpa.

Aderemi has participated in some residencies and workshops: Bayreuth with Bayreuth International Graduate School of African Studies (BIGSAS), Indonesia with Biennale Jogja XIII, Berlin with NeueSchulef眉rFotografie, Photography Masterclass with Akinbode Akinbiyi in Lagos, Goethe-institut鈥檚 Photographers Master Class at the LagosPhoto Festival 2013 and The Nlele Institute African Centre for Photography workshops series, Lagos OPEN RANGE 2015.

Aderemi is a past General Publicity Secretary, Association of Nigeria Authors, Lagos Chapter (ANA Lagos).

A member of Canadian Federation of Poets, Association of Nigerian Authors, Pen-circle of the University of Lagos, Association of Young Journalist and Writers, PEN Nigeria and an Alumnus of School of Media and Communication & Pan-African University."
"10 Countries are Expected to Attend Abidjan for The Electronic and Video Game Festival of Abidjan (FEJA), The Biggest eSport and Video Game Event Powered by Paradise Game

From November 23-25th Abidjan will host the second year the Electronic and Video Game Festival of Abidjan (FEJA) (www.FEJA.ci). This event is organized by Paradise Game (www.ParadiseGame.net), major player of the video game industry in West Africa, in sponsorship with Orange C么te d鈥橧voire (www.Orange.ci), and in partnership with the RTI (Radiodiffusion T茅l茅vision Ivoirienne), the Palais de la Culture of Abidjan, Yolo Media Factory, AOS Africa, the Goethe-institut and many more.

Le FEJA Orange 2018, the reference for electronic sports and video game lovers

The FEJA Orange 2018 will feature even more eSports tournaments, with professional players from 10 countries across Africa. More than 20 000 Euros will be given in Cash prizes.

The pan african qualifiers for FEJA Orange 2018 will take place between September 22nd and November 22nd 2018 in C么te d鈥橧voire as well as in the following countries: Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Ghana, Guinea Conakry, Mali, Nigeria, Senegal, Togo. Registrations start September 12th on www.FEJA.ci, until September 22nd 2018.

During the three-day festival, visitors will be able to assist the finals of the eSport tournaments to include FIFA, PES, Fortnite, Street Fighters, Tekken, Naruto, Dragon Ball Z, Clash of Clans and Candy Crush video games.

Job creation at the heart of FEJA Orange 2018

FEJA Orange 2018 ambitions to promote video game industry fields and offers new perspectives to the African youth.

The theme of the FEJA Orange 2018 is 鈥淛ob Creation through the video game industry鈥? The event will put into light the different employment fields: Game designers, Developers, Programmers, Pro-gamer, etc. In addition, the participants will learn about topics as diverse as creating a game, monetizing a game or a mobile application, etc. Guests will also share their experience with the attendees through workshops and conferences. Sidick Bakayoko, Founder and CEO of Paradise Game, producer of the event, stated: 鈥楾he video game industry is the leading cultural industry in the world and generates nearly $ 100 billion. Africa, despite all its creativity, represents only 1% of this industry. It is therefore crucial to promote careers in the video game industry for women and men, in order to create employment opportunities on the continent.鈥?
The FEJA Orange 2018, an event for the whole family

The FEJA is also a familial festival per se. Expos and fun activities will entertain the public, especially thanks to different zones dedicated to kids, casual gamers, and even retro-gamers. Guests stars (renown esport players, youtubers, artists) will be part of the program. With more than 5 000m虏 dedicated to Gaming and technological innovation, the Palais de la Culture of Abidjan will truly turn into a gaming paradise.

Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Paradise Game.

Media contact : [email protected] ; +225 07 90 80 80 /+ 225 88 90 91 91

About Paradise Game

Paradise Game (www.ParadiseGame.net) is a company based in Abidjan, Ivory Coast, whose ambition is to transform the African video game industry. Paradise Game鈥檚 vision is to create the biggest gamers community in Africa and to offer that community premier events, high-end gaming and e-Learning centers, as well as multimedia content (entertainment, e-learning, etc).

Paradise Game initiated the first major video game and eSport festival in Africa, the FEJA (Festival de L鈥櫭塴ectronique et du Jeu vid茅o d鈥橝bidjan 鈥?(FEJA.ci), but also an African TV show named Paradise Game Show dedicated to the industry players. Paradise Game now promotes 鈥渕ade-in-Africa鈥?indie game developers on the local market as well as on the international scene.

Website 鈥?www.ParadiseGame.net, Social Networks 鈥?Youtube: www.youtube.com/c/ParadiseGame |Facebook: www.facebook.com/ParadiseGame.net| Instagram: ParadiseGame_ |Twitter: @ParadiseGame_

About Orange C么te d鈥橧voire

Orange C么te d鈥橧voire (www.Orange.ci), leading mobile telecom operator in C么te d鈥橧voire with more than 11 000 000 clients, is a company that makes it a point to provide quality service to its clients. Orange offers landline and mobile services as well as internet to both the general public and the companies.

Orange C么te d鈥橧voire revolutionized the mobile banking industry in C么te d鈥橧voire by launching its Mobile Money in 2008 to simplify its customers lives by allowing them to make several financial transactions such as money transfer, invoice payment, cash collection using a mobile phone.

Website: www.Orange.ci / www.Business.Orange.ci Social Network: Facebook : https://www.facebook.com/orangecotedivoire / Twitter : https://twitter.com/CI_Orange

Media filesDownload logo

Related"
"By Adedapo Adesanya

Tether Operations Limited (Tether), the technology company supporting the blockchain-enabled platform that powers the largest stablecoin by market capitalization (USD鈧?, and the Swiss City of Lugano have announced the second inaugural Plan 鈧?Summer School programme to drive Bitcoin education.

The Plan 鈧?Summer School was founded to make blockchain education accessible and to shape a new generation of business owners, students, researchers, and more. It is co-organized with Franklin University Switzerland (FUS), Universit脿 della Svizzera Italiana (USI), and the University of Applied Sciences and Arts of Southern Switzerland (SUPSI).

Last year, Tether contributed its expertise and knowledge to this initiative by focusing on educating a new generation of students. The previous program gathered 86 students from 29 different countries, including Italy, Switzerland, Taiwan, Canada, Brazil, and Colombia, all of who brought with them a passion for learning about the future of the blockchain ecosystem and exploring new environments.

鈥淎 strong focus on education is a vital next step to mainstream adoption of blockchain and the long-term implication of blockchain technology,鈥?said Mr Paolo Ardoino, Tether鈥檚 CTO.

鈥淭he Plan 鈧?Summer School will allow participants to work with leading industry minds on developing peer-to-peer prototypes and deepening their understanding of the technology helping shape the next generation of founders, developers and creators.鈥?
The focus of this year鈥檚 two-week Summer School program will be Bitcoin and Peer-to-Peer technologies and how they will unleash financial freedom and promote the freedom of speech. Course topics will focus on Bitcoin, the Lightning Network, stablecoins, peer-to-peer technologies, mining, blockchain analysis, regulation, self-custody, and more.

Students will be given the opportunity to choose one of the two-course tracks. The Satoshi track is designed for beginners with little to no experience in coding but with a general interest in the fundamentals of blockchain, and the Pear track is for intermediate to advanced students who are passionate about coding and interested in learning how to build on Peer-to-Peer technologies.

鈥淲e are thrilled to welcome the Plan 鈧?Summer School once again, and we hope for the same turnout and attendance as the past year. Lugano will keep making its mark as a crypto and educational hub,鈥?said Michele Foletti, Mayor of the City of Lugano. 鈥淲e hope to educate a new generation of potential employers alongside local academic universities in order to make Lugano a hub for the future.鈥?
Prominent industry leaders giving their time to guest lecture at the Plan 鈧?Summer School include Paolo Ardoino, CTO of Tether, Adam Back, the CEO of Blockstream, Giacomo Zucco, the CEO of Zuckbucks, Sanja Kon, the CEO of UTrust, Riccardo Masutti Cybersecurity and Privacy Consultant focused in Bitcoin and more.

Luca Maria Gambardella, Pro-Rector for Innovation and Corporate Relations at the Universit脿 della Svizzera Italiana (USI) stated that he wishes to 鈥減romote the Summer School with enthusiasm and commitment, which reinforces the collaboration on education initiated between the partners with the 鈥楤4B 鈥?Blockchain for Business鈥?course, and which attracts experts, students and professionals from all over the world to Lugano, strengthening the Lugano Citt脿 Universitaria project as a place of study, meeting and comparison鈥?

Emanuele Carpanzano, SUPSI鈥檚 Director of Research, Development and Knowledge Transfer, agreed, speaking on behalf of the University of Applied Sciences and Arts of Southern Switzerland, saying: 鈥淲e are delighted to contribute to the realisation of this Summer School in Lugano, an educational proposal in line with the mission we share with our partners: to transmit knowledge and skills, as well as to network students and professionals with each other鈥?

Kim Hildebrant and Dr. Branko Sain, respectively, President and Dean of Franklin University鈥檚 Taylor Institute, also declared, 鈥淟ugano鈥檚 Plan 鈧?is an ambitious project for an ambitious city. We immediately found a common understanding with the Mayor of Lugano and his team around the opportunity to run the first edition of the Summer School last year and the privilege of hosting it again next summer. At Franklin University Switzerland, we believe that any kind of progress, be it social, environmental, economic or technological, requires positive change. And change is fostered by education and by selfless and courageous leadership like that of our City and the three local universities鈥?

Share this: Tweet





Like this: Like Loading..."
"Zille鈥檚 Fighting Book Is A LABAF 2018 Choice

Helen Zille鈥檚 Not Without A Fight is among the twenty books selected for reading and discussion at the 20th Lagos Book and Art Festival, holding at the Freedom Park on Broad Street from November 5 to 11, 2018. One of the most comprehensive accounts of South Africa鈥檚 24 year grapple with the construction of a functioning, non-racial democracy, the book will join Lee Kuan Yew鈥檚 Singapore: From Third World To First, Pranay Gupte鈥檚 Dubai: The Making of a Megapolis and Obafemi Awolowo鈥檚 Path To Nigerian Freedom at the Festival colloquium entitled New Possiblities, on Friday, November 9, 2018. Ms. Zille, currently Premier of South Africa鈥檚 Western Cape Province, was leader of the Democratic Alternative (DA), the main Opposition Party. She won the World Mayor award in 2008, two years after she was elected Mayor of Cape Town. Her book is an insightful telling of the difficult work in progress to build a capable state in Africa鈥檚 most industrialised economy. 鈥淚t fits the theme of our twentieth anniversary edition of LABAF, which is Renewal: Reimagining a world that works for all鈥? says Jahman Anikulapo, director of LABAF and Programme Chair of the Committee for Relevant Art.

Royal Hibiscus Is Right to Be Shallow, For Its Sake

There鈥檚 nothing wrong with a feel good drama which is produced for the sake of feeling good. So the argument that Royal Hibiscus Hotel, the latest movie by the Ebony Life Films, is utterly shallow, as a basis for review, is very problematic. Here鈥檚 a romantic movie with an aspirational story at the core. There is no subplot in the entire narrative that is not trashed out, if not resolved. There is no deeply flawed character, who messes with decent order of things in this particular universe, that doesn鈥檛 get justice. The ending is clich茅d, but it is hard to deliver the required suspense for this kind of boy 鈥搈eets- girl -and 鈥搕he- road -leads -to -marriage story without being trapped in some kind of twist. Director Ishaya Bako deserves to be congratulated for a minimalist handling of a story with a high potential for melodrama.

Standing Room Only at the Art House For TK at 70

Three documentary films, a panel discussion, several rounds of cuttings of the cake, lunch (in the hall) and dinner (at the Food Court), served in the course of nine hours, filled the last day of the weeklong celebration of Tunde Kelani at 70, held at the Freedom Park on Lagos Island. The event ran from 2pm in the afternoon to midnight on Thursday March 8. It was raining tributes for Nigeria鈥檚 most widely decorated, living filmmaker. Most of the comments made it light: 鈥淭K was wearing Ankara trousers with t-shirt on top, long before it became cool to do so鈥? declared Joke Silva, herself a significant actress. 鈥淗e鈥檚 a forerunner, and we go back a long way, to the very beginning of my career, since Mirror In The Sun鈥? We鈥檝e found ourselves working together on the same locations, sets, even boards (of parastatals) and everywhere, he had been unfailingly supportive.鈥?Kunle Afolayan, second generation actor, director and film producer, declared that in the Nineties, the one Nigerian filmmaker who was invited to all the film festivals around the world was Tunde Kelani. 鈥淚 have always been his prot茅g茅. I told myself I want to be like this man鈥? In King of The Shoot, one of the three documentaries, Kelani himself revealed how desperate he had wanted to be a cameraman all his life. As young as age of 14, at Abeokuta Grammar School, he tampered with the figure on a scholarship form so he could get money to order a new camera from England. The school bursar found out and, instead of punishing him, gave him the money for the purchase. King of The Shoot will be screened at the IREP Doumentary Film Festival, running from March 22-25 at the Freedom Park.

Henrike Grohs Award Goes To Cameroonian Conceptualist

Em鈥檏al Eyongakpa has been announced as the first recipient of the Henrike Grohs Award. The 37 year old Cameroonian will receive a 20.000鈧?cash prize on 13 March 2018 in Abidjan. Eyongakpa is getting the award, conceived by the Goethe-institut and the Grohs family, 鈥渇or his poetic, subtle and subjective approach鈥? according to the jury comprising Koyo Kouoh (Artistic Director, RAW Material Company, Dakar), Laurence Bonvin (artist and representative of the Grohs family, Berlin), Raphael Chikukwa (Chief Curator, National Gallery of Zimbabwe, Harare) and Simon Njami (Curator, Paris). 鈥淗is work expresses universal concerns of humanity. The multidisciplinary stance of his practice that includes knowledge derived from science, ethnobotany, magical realism, experimentation and utopia, aptly responds to the core values of the Henrike Grohs Art Award鈥? The artist holds degrees in Plant biology and Ecology from the University of Yaound茅 and was a resident at the Rijksakademie in Amsterdam. Eyongakpa鈥檚 work has recently been exhibited at the Jakarta Biennale (2017), the 13th Sharjah Biennial (2017) and the 32nd Bienal de S茫o Paulo (2016). The prize recognises the lifetime achievements of the former Head of the Goethe-institut in Abidjan, Henrike Grohs, who was killed on 13 March 2016 in a terrorist attack in Grand-Bassam, C么te d鈥橧voire.

CALENDAR: 鈥淭hese Events We Support鈥? By Steve Ayorinde

Steve Ayorinde, Lagos State commissioner for Culture and Tourism, has effectively rolled out the state鈥檚 Culture Calendar for the year 2018. At a 鈥渢own hall鈥?meeting with Culture producers at the just concluded Lagos Theatre Festival, Ayorinde listed 70 events, scheduled for January to December in 2018, 鈥渢hat have the support of the state government鈥? On the list for March 2018 are Kunle Afolayan鈥檚 Kulturcentric, an outdoor, poolside programme of live music, dance and drama skits, scheduled for March 30 at the Airport Hotel in Ikeja, a presentation, on the same date, of The Marriage of Anansewa at Terrakulture, to mark the World Theatre Day, Duro Ladipo Family鈥檚 production of Oba Koso at the National Theatre (undated) IREP鈥檚 Annual Festival of Documentary Films, with the theme, this year being Archiving Africa II: Frontiers and New Narratives at the Freedom Park from March 22 to March 25, Lagos State School Paintings, Drawings and Photo Competition (undated). Gidi Culture Fest, March 30, 2018 and Frejon Festival. 鈥淪upporting these events doesn鈥檛 mean that we are providing financial backing鈥? Ayorinde stressed. 鈥淲hat it means is that we recognise that these programmes are well thought out and, when we say a programme has the state鈥檚 support, it is enough validation to seek funding from sponsors鈥?

Compiled by staff of Festac News Agency

"
"Yinka Olatunbosun

A traveling adventure is underway as the Molue Mobile Museum of Contemporary Art makes its way to the 13th International Biennial Dak芒鈧劉Art Exhibition in Senegal this week. The take-off was on April 11 in Lagos. Titled, 芒鈧淪tretched Terrains芒鈧劉, this memorable journey, a second of its kind, is a project curated by a Nigerian artist based in Germany, Emeka Udemba in collaboration with the Goethe-institut, Nigeria with support from Lufthansa and Brussels Airlines.

It is an art residency programme for young artists from Nigeria, Ghana, Ivory Coast, Senegal and Germany that revolves around a six-week journey on the road in the Mobile Molue. The travelling artists will cross through Benin, Togo, Ghana, the Ivory Coast and Mali and finally, arriving at Dakar in time for the Dak芒鈧劉art exhibition.

At every point of stop along their way to Senegal, these artists have the opportunity to meet and greet representatives of Lufthansa, Brussels Airlines and Goethe-institut in various countries. The Molue that houses the artists and their works is a symbol of resilience. It is an old converted public transport bus on a legitimate ambitious journey of 10,000 km.

Highly experimental in nature, the traveling 芒鈧揳rt-venture芒鈧劉芒鈧劉 encourages cultural exchange and collaboration amongst participating artists and the public. The participating artists include Emeka Udemba, Gabriel Goller, Monsuru Alashe, Ray Claver Agbo, Souleymane Konate and Dame Diongue otherwise known as Bay Dam.

Some of the participating artists who speak French fluently will be human assets on this journey through these mostly francophone territories. On board this mobile museum is a collective made up of painters, photo artist, digital artist and they have art-related souvenirs for the host cultural communities.

With the social media hashtag Stretched Terrains, art enthusiasts can follow the artists and monitor their progress on the journey. To make the long journey pleasurable, the bus has been equipped with a television and a DVD player, mini-rechargeable fans, solar energy unit, gas cooker, cooking pots as well as adjustable seats.

As for Gabriel Goller who is visiting Nigeria for the first time, he is prepared on focusing on the good side of the journey.

芒鈧揑 am not thinking too much about what can go wrong on our way,芒鈧劉芒鈧劉 he responded while fielding questions from concerned journalists during a press conference that preceded the journey. The artists are expected back in Lagos on May 25."
"Survival in a crises-plagued society leaves a bitter aftertaste on Ibe Ananaba芒鈧劉s palate and inspires his fifth solo exhibition in Lagos. Okechukwu Uwaezuoke reports

EXHIBITION

Are these carefully-lined up jerrycans extending the message of the paintings looming above them? Obviously. At first, they convey the impression that this exhibition, titled Long-drawn Shadows, is all about fuel queues. But this impression soon dissipates when the viewer moves on to the other parts of the exhibition hall.

Talking about the exhibition芒鈧劉s title, it was a product of a prolonged cerebration. The artist Ibeabuchi (better known to his friends as Ibe) Ananaba was mulling over recent poignant personal experiences. And these experiences were the inevitable consequences of living in a dysfunctional society. It was when he decided to communicate them visually to his audience that he discovered that a ghastly writer芒鈧劉s block was standing between him and the choice of an appropriate guiding title.

It was then that Professor Frank Ugiomoh came to his rescue. Ananaba had reached out to him, because 芒鈧€?besides being 芒鈧揳 dear friend芒鈧? whose views he respected 芒鈧€?the University of Port Harcourt-based professor of history of art and theory had also witnessed the spectacular progress of his studio practice.

芒鈧揑 poured out my heart, had a deep conversation and after a few deliberations, Long-drawn Shadows was birthed as the title of the show with the help of Professor Ugiomoh,芒鈧?Ananaba recalls.

The title, he thought, was apt for the message he had planned to visually communicate with the audience. 芒鈧揑 went with the title because of the metaphorical approach I toed while titling the pieces and how I wanted or envisaged the audience to receive the message. This was intentional, because I thought going satirical with a tinge of humour would be a good way to communicate the heavy heart-felt pain of a concerned citizen, because I鈥檝e always wondered 鈥榝or how long would we live with these age-old issues that seem unresolvable?鈥櫭⑩偓聺

Back to the exhibition, which opened on Friday, April 13 at Art Twenty-one Gallery within the Eko Hotel and Suites premises in Victoria Island, Lagos. As the artist芒鈧劉s fifth solo show, it lifts a corner of the veil on the ever-shifting kaleidoscope of his creative dispositions. Indeed, the works on display could have been mistaken for works taken from the different stages of his artistic development.

But this is not so. They only represent the 芒鈧揵its芒鈧?of what he has always been doing and are clustered in such subtitles as 芒鈧揋ive Us This Day, Our Daily Fuel芒鈧? 芒鈧揅abal芒鈧? 芒鈧揊orced Crown,芒鈧?芒鈧揥aiting till infinity芒鈧? Hustle in the Dark芒鈧? 芒鈧揟his Houses Are Not For Sale芒鈧? 芒鈧揝hay Na Like Dis WE Go Dey Dey?芒鈧? 芒鈧揜ise Again芒鈧? 芒鈧揘o More Empty Promises芒鈧?and 芒鈧揊orlorn Hopes芒鈧?series, among others.

芒鈧揚erhaps having the pieces all in a show creates a different kind of experience鈥 respond to how the feelings come and what the mood at the time presents.芒鈧?
Then, there are the jerrycan installations. Isn芒鈧劉t their inclusion an overkill? Didn芒鈧劉t his paintings 芒鈧€?and drawings 芒鈧€?sufficiently convey his message? 芒鈧揟he array of paintings (including the drawings), on their own, did justice in proclaiming the desired message but I believe in going the extra mile to bring the idea to life,芒鈧?he says. 芒鈧揝o, I accompanied the series with installation so as to help deepen my message. The reason is that it makes the message easily relatable. People saw it and it resonated with them and I鈥檇 like to believe that it鈥檒l make the exhibition memorable. On the other hand, it鈥檚 a bit disruptive, which also helps in driving the desired message home to the audience鈥檚 consciousness.芒鈧?
But, conspicuously missing in this exhibition, which ends on Friday May 11, are his masterly ballpoint-pen on paper drawings, which were featured at his last major outing in 2009, titled Against All Odds and held at the former Goethe-institut premises along Ozumba Mbadiwe Street in Victoria Island. 芒鈧揟he absence of the ballpoint-pen works was intentional because, first, it requires some extra time and attention to create,芒鈧?the 1999 Institute of Management and Technology graduate says. 芒鈧揝econdly, I felt I was being a bit boxed with the label of 鈥榯hat pen-drawing artist鈥? So, I thought to show the other sides of me. This isn鈥檛 the first time I鈥檓 exhibiting with the pen drawing series absent. I believe an artist has the right to explore and try out new things. That way, one gets to discover some hidden things and grow in the practice. I thought to pause on the pen-drawing series so I can deepen my love and learn more about paints, colours and their usage.芒鈧?
Ananaba is highly optimistic about the future of his studio practice. While he confesses not being able to predict what the future holds in store for him, he senses it would be 芒鈧揵lissful芒鈧?

芒鈧揑n the next five years, I hope to have inspired as many souls across globe as I can with my art. Thankfully, there鈥檚 technology at our fingertips to help achieve that芒鈧?I see my art practice as ministry. I remain extremely thankful that God blessed me with the gift of creativity. So, it鈥檚 my main responsibility to nurture it and use it to challenge, question and reshape thoughts as well as inspire people through many art projects and ventures. The creative mind never sleeps. My next artistic project could be anything, so far it鈥檚 creative.芒鈧?
The Belgian-born artist, who was raised in the south-eastern commercial city, Aba, is constantly seeking new ways to hone his skills. Currently, he is engaged with an 芒鈧揑nternational Watercolour Portrait face-off芒鈧?with a California-based art professor David Lobenberg. 芒鈧揑t鈥檚 our joint portrait challenge initiative where we both exchange images of ourselves and paint. So he paints me and I paint him. The exercise shines a new light on how borderless and interactive art can be. Social media brought us together, though we are based in different continents and have not physically met each other. Interestingly, what seemed like a casual idea has gradually morphed into an incredible cross-cultural discourse.

芒鈧揊or both of us, it has been a privilege to study and paint each other芒鈧劉s personality from a different culture in many sessions. Also, it鈥檚 been a great way in strengthening each other芒鈧劉s courage and confidence in using a delicate medium (watercolour) as the major tool for this cultural exchange.

Asides the above and the future exhibitions that would come, initiatives to engage communities and our social spaces with the arts are being put in place.芒鈧?
Ananaba芒鈧劉s artistic odyssey started from his childhood years. That was the first time he noticed the magic a pencil or crayon could perform on paper. His elder brother Ugo was at that time 芒鈧損ulling visual stunts on paper as he recreated Super Heroes芒鈧?

He must have been three years old or so. All he could recollect about that experience was that it was lovely and that he soon joined his brother in the doodling spree. This was also how it occurred to him that he could become a successful artist.

Thankfully, he grew up in a family that encouraged art. 芒鈧揗y mother was the first art supporter. I knew from childhood that she was the one buying all materials and I needed to bring my ideas to life. I鈥檓 lucky to have siblings and relatives who operate in the creative field.芒鈧?
Thus, he traipsed through an exciting world that has seen him work at top-notch advertising firms and feature in several group exhibitions and art projects. Looking back years later, he owes a debt of gratitude to a host of creative kindred spirits like his brother Ugo, Okechukwu Iwundu, Chima Etu, Henry Morkah, Chamberlin Ukenedo, the late Damian Onyekuru, Uche Iroha, Kelechi Amadi-Obi, Nsikak Essien, Duke Asidere, Edosa Ogiugo, Sam Ovraiti, Abiodun Olaku, Segun Adejumo, Rom Isichei, Kainebi Osahenye and Uche Joel Chima, among others."
"As Arthouse Contemporary Limited holds its 20th Auction of Modern and Contemporary Art in Lagos tomorrow and celebrates a decade of revolutionising the local Nigerian art scene. Okechukwu Uwaezuoke reports

Blank walls, everywhere in the newly-built house, stared back at the occupants. It was as though they were begging to be filled up. That was when it dawned on Kavita Chellaram 芒鈧€?an aficionado of Indian art 芒鈧€?to adorn them with a lot of the art works brought along by her family to Nigeria.

But shortly after an auction held in India, the value of these works astronomically appreciated. Taking some of the works to the auction confirmed this fact. One thing led to the other before the penny dropped: she could replicate the auction here in Nigeria!

Back then, the Lagos art scene 芒鈧€?though awash with talents 芒鈧€?was benumbed by a fog of delusion. And because the pricing of the works were arbitrarily pegged, the artists really bargained hard with the handful of existing collectors to make what they thought were reasonable sales. Even then, getting these collectors to part with their hard-earned money was a daunting task. For they ultimately fixed the prices and the artists had to be content with whatever they were offered.

This scenario not only made the creation of a platform to showcase African art to the international scene imperative, but also inspired her to help make the contemporary Nigerian art scene more transparent.

So, Mrs Chellaram set to work. Soon, the babel of local artistic expressions that initially assailed her sensibilities began to resolve themselves into some form of coherence. Thus, her initial collection 芒鈧€?consisting of two bead paintings by Twin Seven Seven of the informal Osogbo School fame 芒鈧€?were acquired in 1977 and 1978. These were over the years gradually joined by more works by Nigerian artists. The process of acquisition, it turned out, was an arduous one since they were no standard galleries, internet or telephones. Also because their was a dearth of documentation on the artists, assessing art works and artists proved even tougher.

Fast-forward to April 2008, when the inaugural auction of her Arthouse Contemporary Limited was held at the Civic Centre in the Victoria Island neighbourhood of Lagos. She recalls selling a Ben Enwonwu for N1.5 million, which in those days was still a lot of money. She also reckons that the same work would, today, probably go for N20 million.

Meanwhile, the groundwork for that auction had seen her pay visits to artists in their studios and even meet with dealers to find old works. Prior to all that, Mrs Chellaram had taken a coterie of Nigerian artists to India for a charity auction. That would probably explain why charity auctions consistently featured in the biannual Arthouse Contemporary Limited auctions.

Meanwhile, the Lagos-based international auction house芒鈧劉s 20th Auction of Modern and Contemporary Art holds tomorrow (Monday, June 4) from 6 pm at the Kia Showroom, along the upmarket Victoria Island neighbourhood芒鈧劉s arterial thoroughfare Adeola Odeku Street. This auction also marks the 10th year anniversary of its auctions.

Founded sometime in late 2007, this laudable endeavour set up by Mrs Chellaram focuses mainly on modern and contemporary art from West Africa. In the course of its decade-long existence, it has also featured a handful works by East African artists alongside others in its past auctions. Leveraging on the recent performance of African art in the global art scene, tomorrow芒鈧劉s auction features such already acknowledged masters and leading contemporary artists as Ben Enwonwu, Bruce Onobrakpeya, Ben Osawe, Kolade Oshinowo, Ablade Glover, Chuks Anyanwu, David Dale, Ato Delaquis, Mavua Lessor, Uzo Egonu, Obi Enkwenchi, Okpu Eze, Lamidi Fakeye, Amos Odion, Abiodun Olaku, Muraina Oyelami, Jacob Afolabi, Susanne Wenger and Sam Ovraiti, who are easily the sub-region芒鈧劉s most celebrated.

Specifically, this edition features over 20 works culled from the collection of a prominent art collector. These works include works by Ben Enwonwu, Tayo Adenaike, David Dale, Okpu Eze, Abayomi Barber, Jimoh Buraimoh, Solomon Wangboje, Abiodun Olaku, Dele Jegede, Ben Osawe, Kolade Oshinowo, Bruce Onobrakpeya, Sam Ovraiti, Twins Seven Seven, Simon Okeke, Obiora Udechukwu and Ben Osaghae.

Also among the front-line contemporary artists to be featured in the auction are El Anatsui, Peju Alatise, Rom Isichei, Sokari Douglas Camp, Ndidi Emefiele, Lemi Ghariokwu, Alimi Adewale, Duke Asidere, Chike Obeagu, Uche Okpa-Iroha, Oluseye/Lakin Ogunbanwo, Ade Adekola and Michael Soi.

For the auction芒鈧劉s charity segment, four lots from Gerald Chukwuma, Lemi Ghariokwu, Reuben Ugbine, and Uchay Joel Chima will be featured. The proceeds from this segment will be used to support the Arthouse Foundation, which runs a non-profit artists芒鈧劉 residency programme in Lagos.

Already, works for tomorrow芒鈧劉s auction have been on display at the Kia Showroom venue since Saturday, June 2, between 11 am and 6 pm and today, (Sunday, June 3), between 12 noon and 6 pm.

They will also be on display tomorrow, between 10 am and 1 pm.

As for the auction itself, it will as usual be led by the English-born auctioneer, John Dabney, who has been part of the biannual event from inception, and is being sponsored by Access Bank, Kia Motors, Veuve Clicquot, 7UP, Le Connaisseur, and Shiro, alongside its official media partner The Guardian. It is also being supported by Channels and Studio 53.

Besides its biannual auctions, the Arthouse Contemporary Limited also organises a series affordable auctions, which entered its third edition early this year. The auction, which targets young professionals and first time buyers, is part of its endeavour to build a new group of collectors for the rapidly growing local art market.

Right from its inception, the auction house has pioneered the promotion and development of the contemporary art market in Nigeria. This has been through the creation of a viable secondary market and a transparent pricing structure, which bolsters collectors芒鈧劉 confidence in Nigerian art as an investable asset.

Auction records have been set by works of such artists as Ben Enwonwu, Bruce Onobrakpeya and El Anatsui in the biannual event芒鈧劉s various editions. Hence, it has so far sold over N2 billion worth of art from auctioning 1,750 lots.

Beyond the auctions, Arthouse Contemporary Limited has relatively recently expanded its operations to include organising exhibitions of contemporary art with Arthouse-The Space and artists芒鈧劉 residency programme with the non-profit Arthouse Foundation. Among the exhibitions held so far are solo projects by Peju Alatise, Diseye Tantua, Chidi Kwubiri, Eva Obodo, George Osodi, Victor Ekpuk and Emeka Udemba. It has also held an exhibition of the works of master artist Yusuf Grillo, featuring his oils and stained-glass works.

Arthouse-The Space has, in addition, featured its artists at such international art fairs as Art 14 in London and Art X Lagos.

The Arthouse Foundation offers artist residencies in three-month sessions in Lagos. The residency programmes have so far held workshops, open studios and artist talks, as well as final exhibitions. This platform, according to a press statement by Arthouse, is meant to help artists 芒鈧揺xpand their practice and experiment with new art forms and ideas, offering live/work residencies throughout the year in three-month residencies.芒鈧?
Since its creation three years ago, the foundation has hosted 16 artists for the programmes. It has also partnered with international art institutions to offer residency exchanges, including an exchange with the Matadero Museum in Madrid for Nigerian and Spanish artists and an exchange with the Goethe-institut in Berlin for Nigerian and German artists.

Meanwhile, Arthouse moves into the next decade with the aim of expanding its growing online presence and building on its extensive client network. Just this year, it introduced the 芒鈧揂rtist of the Month芒鈧?on its website, offering artworks for sale on the internet. It 芒鈧搃s also working to offer live bidding on its web platform and also aims to expand its international partnerships, bringing exhibitions of modern and contemporary Nigerian art across the globe,芒鈧?the statement adds."
"From 16 to 24 November 2017 the Goethe-institut invites seven game developers from South Africa and eight from Sub Saharan Africa to join an eight day program with sixteen game developers from Germany, Brazil and Indonesia in Johannesburg. The German participants are award winners and nominees of the German Video Game Awards.

About the Award:

Within the program 鈥淕ame Mixer鈥? the Goethe-institut aims to promote professional exchange between game developers from around the world. In 2015, the first Game Mixer Program took place in Jakarta and Bandung,

Indonesia. The following year, the second iteration of the program took place in Sao Paulo, Brazil. In its third iteration, the Game Mixer program seeks to mix up the international game development scene even further by not only including game developers from Germany and the host country of South Africa, but by also inviting participants from broader Sub-Saharan Africa and the former host countries Indonesia and Brazil, too.

Eligible Countries:

South Africa and other countries in Sub Saharan Africa

Eligibility:

If you are interested and want to apply, you should:

be a professional developer from an African game company that has released at least one game;

be committed to participate full-time during the whole ten-day program; and

be able to communicate in English.

Smaller, emerging studios are preferred, since they would benefit most from this programme.

Selection:

The participants will be chosen by a jury of the Goethe-institut and Interactive Entertainment South Africa.

Number of Awards:

Seven from South Africa and eight from Sub Saharan Africa

Value of Award:

The Goethe-institut will provide:

travel expenses to and from Johannesburg

accommodation (for participants not living in Johannesburg)

local transfers

Duration of Program:

16-24 November 2017

Thursday 16 November 鈥?Arrival of guests in Johannesburg, get together, welcome dinner

Friday and Saturday 17 and 18 November 鈥?Game Camp

Sunday 19 November 鈥?Public showcase of the games

Monday 20 November 鈥?Leisure time or Sightseeing

Tuesday 21 November 鈥?Studio visits

Wednesday 22 November 鈥?Internal showcase for participants

Thursday and Friday 23 and 24 November 鈥?Game Jam

Saturday 25 November 鈥?Departure of guests

How to Apply:

Your application should include:

a CV highlighting your professional background

a one-page letter of motivation;

a one-page profile of your studio including: founding date, number of games produced / released, number of developers, performance (e.g. downloads, users, revenue);

a one-page summary of one product that you want to highlight in the showcase including: game details, game performance (e.g. downloads, users, revenue, KPIs), screenshots

Please send your application to Ralf.Eppeneder.extern@goethe.de.

Application Deadline:

5th October 2017"
"For 25 years, Corona Secondary School, Agbara has continued to maintain a culture of excellence among staff and students, evidenced by the quality of results and graduates it has produced over the years. The Principal, Mrs. Chinedum Oluwadamilola, who briefed journalists, on the school芒鈧劉s exploits these 25 years, also shared her dream for the country芒鈧劉s education sector. She also shed light on the school芒鈧劉s recent partnership with the Goethe-institut to support the study of German Language at the school, among other issues. Uchechukwu Nnaike reports

One of the recent additions to the Corona Schools Trust Council, Corona Secondary School, Agbara, Ogun State recently turned 25 and the anniversary coincided with the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding with the Goethe-institut to support the study of German Language at the school.

Judging by the distance to the school from Lagos and the bumpy ride, one would wonder why anyone would take the pains to go that far for secondary education. However the beautiful neighbourhood and the serenity once inside the school premises make all the difference.

The Principal, Mrs. Chinedum Oluwadamilola, an astute administrator and easy going woman is an epitome of continuous personal development and hard work, having bagged chains of degrees and certifications with a PhD in view.

As someone that is passionate about teacher development, she said as a one-time monitoring and evaluation manager, she derived joy in seeing teachers improve and gradually become the kind of proficient teachers that the school is looking for.

She however expressed concern that a lot of teachers are demotivated in Nigeria, saying that when someone is demotivated no matter how much skills the person has, it doesn芒鈧劉t show because the person works from the point of view that he/she is not appreciated and there is no point putting any effort.

鈥淚 have had the opportunity of training teachers in the public sector. I have done that over the years and one of the things they keep saying is that 鈥榓ll these things you are saying how do we do them with about 80 or 150 students in the class鈥? So they are demotivated by the system even when they want to do something. So I think that generally government ought to give a lot of attention, they need to build more schools, more classrooms so that one teacher does not teach 80 students, there is very little he can do in a room that is meant for 30 students.鈥?
Asked how the school has maintained a culture of excellence over the years, the principal said: 鈥淐orona Secondary School is the only secondary school owned by the Corona Schools Trust Council. The council stands for world class education, the ownership structure is different, it does not have a proprietor so every Corona staff is a stakeholder. That is ingrained in our heads that whatever I do, I do for myself. And then it is a trust, no expense is spared in training the workforce; in providing facilities for the schools so there is this culture of continuous improvement.

鈥淭hat is a major reason why the secondary school has lasted this long. As at today, the people who have worked here for over 15 years are almost 50. So there is continuity that is quite remarkable. People who have been here from inception are here and it is not like one odd person, so attrition rate in Corona is very low. That continuity helps the school to maintain a tradition, a culture that whoever joins cannot dilute.鈥?
Asked why the school opted to teach German Language, Oluwadamilola, who has been with the school since 1993 said the world is a global village and because most of its students go abroad for their university education, and in the process of searching for universities abroad, the school realised that in Germany there is quality education with little or no tuition fees, but language is a big barrier. 鈥淭hey have schools that teach in English but you have to speak the language to live with them.鈥?
According to her, the German teacher established a rapport with officials of the institut and after several correspondence with the school, they visited the school to inspect facilities on ground and then they came up with the MoU.

鈥淭hey have sent many materials to teach German, ordered for equipment and furniture for language room for us. It is an initiative that stated in 2008 and other countries are benefiting from it, including schools in the US, Europe because it gives the students the opportunity of getting into good schools, getting scholarship offers, going for excursions, teacher exchange programmes and a whole lot.鈥?
Commenting on the standard of education in the country and the role of education inspectors in improving teacher quality, the principal regretted that education inspectors are almost always behind the time. 鈥淭hey ask questions about things that no longer exist so we try and explain what we are doing. You can鈥檛 be inspecting people with the aim of raising and maintaining standards and you are like two decades behind. So yes they come but for a school like Corona, they make no difference. They feel intimidated so they don芒鈧劉t have anything to ask.

鈥淚nspectors should get up to date education, but they are battling with so many things and that may not happen until the government takes a strong grip on education.鈥?
She maintained that if inspectors are diligent and have integrity, there are so many schools that should never exist. 鈥淥ne of my dreams is that one day, there will be a thorough cleansing of the education sector just like the banking sector by Soludo. When that is done, more than 80 per cent of private schools will close; they don芒鈧劉t have qualified teachers, facilities; we have schools sharing compound with mechanics; we have traders setting up schools and all sorts of things.鈥?
While reliving some of her memorable moments in the school, Oluwadamilola, said getting students to score A* in about seven subjects or having a student score100 per cent in mathematics, physics, biology, chemistry in an external exam is amazing.

鈥淲hen students have been taught so much that they finish everything they can find for O鈥?Level and they start studying A鈥?Level stuff, that is mind boggling.鈥?
On how the school instils discipline in the students, she students all forms of distraction are eliminated and the students are always busy with school work, extracurricular activities or community service. She cited an example of how she had directed one of the photography students to record proceedings of an event held at the school on a weekend to be shown at the assembly ground for those that did not witness it. But the student reported back that a teacher seized the laptop he was using because he was doing it at the wrong time despite the fact that the assignment was given by the principal.鈥?
In terms of supporting public schools, she highlighted some of the activities of the students in a number of public schools in the community to include donation of books, construction of classroom block, science laboratory, home economics laboratory, toilets, sinking of bore hole, donation of furniture, among others.

鈥淲e don鈥檛 encourage students to call their parents to write a cheque, for their community service, what we do is the students will use part of their pocket money. They come up with what they can do to earn money, sometimes they come up with car washing, they wash our cars and we pay or they come up with a movie so staff will buy tickets or mufti day, for instance on such days I will wear a T-shirt and jeans and we pay them to wear it. On visiting days they sell things. They make us go to the market and buy all sorts of things and parents will buy so they raise money. That way, they take ownership of the projects.鈥?
On the future plan of the school, she said 鈥渨e are open to opportunities, innovations; we are open to things we can do that will help our students be better equipped for life outside school. And so since we are on the look-out, there definitely will be new things.鈥?
Corona partners Goethe on German language"
"Yinka Olatunbosun

One of Nigeria鈥檚 pioneer artists, Timothy Adebanjo Fasuyi is a very intriguing man. At 82, his home is filled with fresh paintings in preparation for the exhibition in celebration of his birthday. Actually, Fasuyi hardly celebrates birthdays. But in the interest of art, a week-long programme which includes a colloquium is being organised for art enthusiasts in Lagos.

Forget what anyone might have told you about cultural centres in Lagos. Fasuyi built the first cultural centre in Lagos in 1971 even before the National Theatre was completed. His goal was to use the centre to promote interest in our indigenous culture through performances, food and art works side-by-side with other cultural organisations such as the British Council, Goethe-institut, Italian Cultural Centre and the American Embassy. However, the low turnout at the Ikeja hub was discouraging to him hence he converted the building to a pre-varsity school.

Born in 1935, at Ilesa, his grandfather, the Asolo of Isona was the head of the Artists Guild based in Isona. In 1949, he was admitted into Ilesa Grammar School where art became his favourite subject. He was the cartoonist and illustrator of the school magazine whose editor was Lateef Jakande. After his secondary education, he was employed at the Survey Department, Western Region Ministry of Works and Housing and posted to the drawing section of the parastatal. In 1954, he was admitted into the Nigeria College of Arts and Science, Zaria as one of the pioneer students. He won all departmental prizes including the Sir Sidney Philipson Prize for the most outstanding examination performance.

He began his teaching career shortly at secondary schools including the Kings鈥?College, Methodist, St. Finbarrs and St. Gregory, designing logos for the Federal Government Colleges. He is the co-founder of the Society of Nigerian Artists and was appointed Federal Art Adviser in 1969 and between 1973 and 1975, he served as UNESCO goodwill cultural ambassador. At the age of 50, he retired but began painting assiduously. As he said, his palette is still wet.

鈥淚 have too many ideas in my head,鈥?he began as he was surrounded by select journalists inside his gallery. His paintings bear the signature, TAFAS which is drawn from first letters of his name.

He is exhibiting 82 works and that really keeps him busy. Most of the works are a reflection of the social realities in Nigeria. One of them titled, 鈥淢ixed Feelings鈥? penetrates into the heart of a woman whose abducted child is found pregnant.

鈥淚 reflected on the Chibok girls and their plight after their release. The unwanted pregnancy creates a mixed feeling. This one is called Unknown Soldier,鈥?he said, drawing attention to the episode of the raped women and girls at the Internally Displaced Persons camp. In the work titled, 鈥?The Burden of African Woman鈥? he paints the picture of a woman who is multi-tasking. She backs a baby, heaps firewood on her head, carries a water pot and is heavily pregnant.

鈥淚 find it easy to produce works in any of the isms 鈥?impressionism, expressionism, cubism and abstractism. I am at home with natural synthase which has now become the trademark of Zaria trained artists. My post graduate courses in Birmingham University UK and Sydney University, Australia have added some values to my Zaria training. My visits to over 80 leading cities of the world have also enhanced my practice. I have experimented with calabash sculptures an offshoot of the traditional Oyo Calabash carving and decoration.鈥?
The exhibition opens tomorrow, which will be followed on the next day by a colloquium at the Conference Hall, TAFAS Art Centre, Off Adeniyi Jones, Ikeja. A special prayer session will be held with family and friends on Wednesday April 19.

Fasuyi usually paints for two or three hours, read newspapers and receive visitors. When he is not painting, he dances in his room."
Welcome to the Pulse Community! We will now be sending you a daily newsletter on news, entertainment and more. Also join us across all of our other channels - we love to be connected!
"To this end, Lagos Film Society (LFS), supported by Goethe-institut Nigeria and British Council will be hosting a 2-Day symposium titled 'Reclaiming History, Unveiling Memory'.

Come April 29th and 30th, several local and international experts will discuss the significance of history and film making at the Nigerian Film Corporation.

In more ways than one, Nigeria as a country has fallen short in engaging with history.

ADVERTISEMENT

To this end, the event seeks to fill this vacuum and shine a flashlight into the mystery that shrouds a collective past, and to trigger the culture of revisiting memory.

The event which kicks off at 10am will see local and international experts share the archival experiences with the interested audience via panels, presentations, film screenings, and workshops.

Iconic Nigerian filmmaker, Dr Ola Balogun, will screen and discuss some of his early films, and there will also be a special session curated by Nsibidi Institute and the Royal African Society.

Also at the event will be the Indonesian film collective Lab Labalaba who will present their approach to film archives in Jakarta."
"The Ghanaian culture has been driven in the past few years with so much galmour. Unfortunately, not all of us witness the experience of the 60鈥檚 and 70鈥檚. The 1960鈥檚 and 70鈥檚 culture is a historical period our fathers, mothers and grandpartents always boast of with so much vigour. Nevertheless, some insitutions and other individuals kept these fond memories in photos.

The photos are mainly black and white photos depicting social life, early musicians, history, fashion, etc.

Lets take this opportunity to learn. Do you know who invented the kpalongo Dance? Have you ever seen the early buildings of Kotoka International Airport? Check out the Accra Post Office environment between the 60s and 70鈥檚.

And yes, it is true that our grandfathers and mothers walked barefooted to school. It was no joke, but kids in the 50鈥檚 gracefully and joyfully enjoyed life playing with nothing on their feets.

An audio interview of Professor John Collins, the enthnomusicologist who lived and researched on early highlife music in Ghana willl be played during this exhibition.

This is a Heritage Photo Lab Project in collaboration with Goethe-institut Ghana, Insitut Fran莽ais Accra and the Institute of African Studies, University of Ghana (Legon). The exhibition will be opened from Saturday, 13th March, 2021 to Friday, 16th April, 2021.

This is Free!

By George Gyesaw"

For full functionality of this site it is necessary to enable JavaScript. Here are the instructions how to enable JavaScript in your web browser
"The Northern Regional Minister, Salifu Saeed, is asking law enforcement agencies to clamp down on the activities of rampaging youth of the governing New Patriotic Party (NPP), to lessen the tensions in the area.

As Chairman of the Regional Security Council, the unhappy Salifu Saeed said government can no longer tolerate such acts of hooliganism by the irate youth.

[contextly_sidebar id=鈥?vPqY5l6otsaR7DghAFfzeN2CjNGL5Iv鈥漖Salifu Saeed in a Citi News interview, condemned the recent happenings in Karaga, and asked the law enforcement agencies there to stop such unlawful acts gaining notoriety in other parts of the region.

He reassured people of the entire region that the appropriate measures will be put in place to curtail any hostilities that will mar the implementation of pro-poor government policies including the planting for food and jobs, one district-one factory and free Senior High School among others.

Salifu Saeed reiterated the need for aggrieved party loyalists to respect the rule of law in seeking solutions to their concerns.

鈥淧resident Nana Akufo Addo has sent a clear warning to party youth not to engage in acts that will break the rule of law because he himself is a peaceful person.鈥?
鈥淗e wants Ghana to be repackaged to be one of the most peaceful countries we have in this part of the sub region.鈥?
The Northern Regional Minister called for peaceful co-existence as plans are far advanced to bring to finality the age-long Dagbon chieftaincy impasse between the Abudus and Andanis.

Meanwhile, the Regional Security Council (RECSEC), has reinforced security presence in Karaga and its environs.

18 incidents of vigilante violence recorded since NPP鈥檚 victory

About 18 violent cases believed to be perpetrated by some youth aligned to the governing party have so far been recorded in the country.

Critics of the NPP have claimed that such groups have been acting lawlessly because of lack of commitment on the part of government to deal with them.

鈥?
By: Abdul Karim Naatogmah/citifmonline.com/Ghana"
"As of May 2017, Ms. Barbara Liebel will take up her post as the new German Academic Exchange Service (DAAD) lecturer at the University of Namibia (UNAM). She will be supported by Ms. Diana Acker, who is working for one year as a language assistant on behalf of the DAAD in Namibia. With their secondment via the DAAD, the government of the Federal Republic of Germany confirms its commitment to the longstanding academic and scientific cooperation with the Republic of Namibia.

In her role as lecturer, Ms. Liebel is responsible for cross-campus DAAD scholarship counselling of students, graduates and teachers at UNAM and the Namibia University of Science and Technology (NUST), as well as briefing those who are interested in studying in Germany.

Ms. Liebel will hold courses at the UNAM Department of Languages and Literature Studies, German Section, in topics such as literature studies, methodology and didactics, as well as German as a Foreign Language. Additionally, she will support the planning and hosting of cultural and other events, such as workshops, DAAD information events and career fairs.

Furthermore, Ms. Liebel will assist with projects of the German Embassy, the DAAD information centre in South Africa and the Goethe-institut Namibia, and also contribute original research for publications, at colloquiums and conferences in the country and the region."
Long established fact that a reader will be distracted
"By BAMUTURAKI MUSINGUZI More by this Author

Uganda National Museum is presenting an experimental event series in which existing objects in the collection are remade and used in performative ways.

In the exhibition Facing Our Past: Rethinking Future Museums, the public is invited to engage with objects such as bowls and mats, which are usually displayed for ""looking only"". The museum wants to introduce new ways of collecting and museum-making, and to encourage new narratives and interpretations of material in the ethnographic collections.

鈥淭he exhibition involves artworks or objects as mere units of the performative installations that shape an intended experience, which makes it extremely difficult to count artworks but instead curators decided to qualify experiences offered by each installation and space within the exhibition arena,鈥?the co-curator of the exhibition Philip Balimunsi said.

The exhibition features a collection of 80 gourds (both uncut and cut to form an installation), 20kg of cowrie shells, two cartons of packed salt and 25kg of refined salt, 120 (A3 and A4) photos of the study group since the start of the project, 240 footprints of a museum practitioner within the exhibition and moving from the exhibition entrance to H9, and a 5m X 2m sticker typographic interpretation of study group members' vision of the Future Uganda museum through words, a painting and sketches of the artistic impression of H9 by the invited visual artist.

鈥淩ather than invite the visitor as a passive participant, consumer or viewer, the team of co-curators decided to turn the exhibition into an arena of experience that triggers audience active participation into a performative related process. Visitors also become creators of content rather than consumers,鈥?said Balimunsi, who is also a curator at the Uganda National Cultural Centre/Nommo Gallery in Kampala.

鈥淏y coming to this exhibition, the visitor voluntarily joins the new school of museology, which seeks to Africanise museums by creatively shaping space for audiences to contribute through written sticky notes and documentation of their presence on gourds. At the entrance, audiences are offered a branded pen, headphones and a newly cleaned unused gourd as tools of documentation and experimentation. On the sticky notes, audiences write their experiences about the exhibition and the two installations of salt and cowrie shells,鈥?Balimunsi added.

Advertisement

The exhibition, running until January 15,2022, is run jointly with MuseumFutures Africa, which works with museums across the continent to test, explore and study potentials for new formats of African museology.

Spearheaded by the Goethe-institut, the project was conceived through a series of ""Museum Conversations"" in 2019, as a means of mobilising museum driven processes of innovation, transformation and adaptation across the African continent.

The project aims to find ways in which museums' needs can be turned into productive forms of reconstituting the value and relevance of African museums, both to their immediate and broader constituencies.

Participating museums

The participating museums in 2021 included the Uganda National Museum, Mus茅e National de Guin茅e, National Museums of Kenya, the Steve Biko Centre in Ginsberg Township, South Africa, the Yemisi Shyllon Museum of Art in Lekki, Lagos State, Nigeria, and the Mus茅e Th茅odore Monod IFAN Cheikh Anta Diop in Dakar, Senegal.

According to Joseph Ssebunya, a co-curator, the Uganda National Museum formed a curriculum study group of 11 people including visual and performative artists, community museums, heritage practitioners and museum staff, who have spent a year sharing ideas.

Balimunsi said the curriculum set basic guides for the team to meet and discuss issues in line with the modules in view of their challenges and success. The project also offered a networking opportunity through pairing of museums to visit each other for tangible experiences and references before execution of individual projects."
"Heva Fund to invest Ksh. 106M in the Kenyan creative sector via 3 funds

Shares

HEVA Fund has announced that it plans to invest over Ksh. 106 million in the Kenyan creative sector through 3 dedicated funds. The funds are in line with their 2018/2022 strategic plan to increase the competitiveness of creative goods, services and experiences through the growth of dynamic creative industries in Kenya and in the East African region.

The three funds are as follows:

1. The Cultural Heritage Fund

The Cultural Heritage Fund is a short term seed financing fund that intends to startups in creative sector that are working in the fields of music, film, fashion, crafts, gaming, performing arts, and culture.

Funding will be available in the form of grant/loan hybrids. HEVA shall invest a minimum of Ksh. 500,000 (USD 5,000) and a maximum of Ksh. 3 million (USD 30,000) in each successful venture.

The Cultural Heritage Fund was established in partnership with the British Council to support creative industry culture and heritage projects, as well as tourism ventures looking to sustainably celebrate and preserve cultural heritage, promote inclusive development and increase both commercial activity and revenues.

Applications are now open until 25th February 2019. Apply here.

2. Young Women in Creative Enterprise Fund

The Young Women in Creative Enterprise Fund intends to support women owned creative businesses to improve the competitiveness of their products. Eligible creative industry sectors include: fashion and apparel manufacturing, digital media, television and film; live music, festivals, fairs, and markets; hair, beauty and cosmetic products, and arts educational enterprises.

The fund will offer loans of up to Ksh. 1 million (USD 10,000) in each successful business.

This fund has been developed in partnership with JENGA CCI 鈥?Global Project Culture and Creative industries, a project of the Goethe-institut Kenya and GIZ. It focuses on supporting women in creative enterprise to build the competitiveness of creative industry products at home and in the East Africa market.

Applications are now open until 25th February 2019. Apply here.

3. Growth Fund

The Growth Fund will target mature businesses that have been in operation for at least 5 years with annual revenues exceeding Ksh. 10 million.

HEVA shall invest a minimum of Ksh. 5 million (USD 50,000) in each successful business.

This fund is in collaboration with Agence Fran莽aise de D茅veloppement (AFD). HEVA and AFD signed the funding agreement in June 2018.

This fund will be launched in February 2019.

In total, the three funds will invest KES 106 million (USD 1.06 million) in the Kenyan creative sector.

Since September 2013, HEVA Fund has invested in 20 creative businesses. The businesses include; Katungulu Mwendwa, Itikadi, Mambo Pambo, Ogake, Peperuka, Aprelle Duany and Wazawazi, Victor Peace and Thomson Photography. HEVA plans to raise Ksh. 500 Million to invest in creative businesses as part of its 2018/2022 strategic plan."
"Nation. Empower Africa.

Welcome to our new brand! We come to you in great new ways, all created to empower every single one of you."

"In Rafiki there is a scene were Ziki (Sheila Munyiva) is slapped hard by her politician father, while she is at a police station. That was a brutal scene and many cringed from it. Wanuri Kahiu has a history of moving audiences with her work.

Wanuri had to take the Kenya Film Classification Board (KFCB) to court for Kenyans to be able to watch a film that was made in Kenya and by Kenyans. And watch it, they did.

The high demand for tickets of the lesbian-themed film forced theatres to triple the screenings. It was also added to screen at other theatres in Kisumu and Mombasa. Initially, it was only to be screened once a day at Prestige Cinema, but IMAX eventually came on board and screened it.

Rafiki became the first Kenyan film to be screened at the Cannes Film Festival and would go on to be screened at several festivals around the world, leaving Kenyans wondering why a Kenyan made film was not showing in Kenya. The issue was that the movie was seen to 鈥済lorify homosexuality鈥?which is not the ""culture"" of Kenyans.

The screenings turned out to be colourful as the movie is, as young Kenyans turned out in colours that support the LGBTQ. Some of the most interesting things about Rafiki include the fact that one of its lead stars, Samantha Mugatsia who plays Kena, was acting for the very first time.

THAT'S HER

According to Patricia Kihoro who was a cast member and also the Music Director, Wanuri was at a gig and Samantha who is a drummer with a band called Yellow Light Machine saw her playing and said, 鈥渢hat鈥檚 her and I will do whatever it takes to get her in this film,鈥? Patricia told the story on Tuesday during a screening for media at Goethe-institut.

Munyiva, on playing the role of Ziki, said that she was assigned an acting coach with whom 鈥渨e created the look and the feel for Ziki; how does she walk? how does she talk? what inspires her?, and then once that was done I spent about a week living like Ziki.鈥?
鈥淚 had to become an 18-year-old who has everything before them, so she has no care in the world and can do and say what she wants,鈥?added Munyiva.

Dr Mutua had described the film as immoral in our society, instead, what we got were a couple or so mild make-out scenes here and there. There was also no nudity or anything. For the KFCB to ban this movie because of this is really annoying. Anyone who has seen movies would probably just rate it at 16 and not 18.

That film was magnificently created. The best thing in this movie is the directing; Nairobi is brought to life. We are seeing a man sharpening a knife, a woman cutting Sukuma wiki for a customer, kids playing, people in church, and more. Wanuri got the resources to pull off a masterful movie that sticks in the mind."
"The term Wanjiku has been used by politicians and Kenyans when advocating for constitutional changes.

The name became famous after it was coined by the retired President Daniel Moi during the time Kenyans called for constitutional reviews in the late 1900s.

Here's a video of the former President when he used the name courtesy of 24 Hours News TV online.

According to a book titled Wanjiku: A Kenyan Sociopolitical Discourse (Goethe-institut, Nairobi and Native Intelligence, 2014), Moi referred to Wanjiku as the general Kenyan who was not only ignorant of national issues but also whose understanding of politics and the processes of constitution making was confined.

Thus, the second president of Kenya, noted that the process should be left to the experts, who in that case referred to the lawyers and politicians, to handle it.

The name since then became a slogan used to champion for constitutional changes and political debates.

Wanjiku's meaning however changed with time after the popular cartoonist Gado decided to give a literal illustration of Wanjiku as a lady.

The cartoonist whose real name is Godfrey Mwampembwa, depicted Wanjiku as the lady whose rights were always violated by politicians.

According to Gado, Wanjiku is a Kenyan who knows his or her constitutional rights and clearly knows how to raise them through the legal processes made available.

The Wanjiku depicted by the two meanings is different from that of the ethnic relation to the Kikuyu community where she is a lady and rather is identified to as a neutral Kenyan."
"Nation. Empower Africa.

Welcome to our new brand! We come to you in great new ways, all created to empower every single one of you."
"Nation. Empower Africa.

Welcome to our new brand! We come to you in great new ways, all created to empower every single one of you."
"Nation. Empower Africa.

Welcome to our new brand! We come to you in great new ways, all created to empower every single one of you."
"Last week, I attended a workshop that discussed publishing of non-fiction prose narrative. So many possibilities came up 鈥?non-fiction is becoming quite popular.

Thereafter, I joined poetry lovers at the launch of Parliament of Owl, a wonderful poetry book, at the Goethe-institut. At the launch, I ruminated over a question, which had inconspicuously emerged at the workshop about how we should treat readers of creative works.

Readers are, essentially, customers. Which is why you might be tempted to appease them 鈥?please them even. Any scribe worth their pen should not please the readers; they should only write or tell the story, properly.

The most amazing writing is that which comes from an informed and challenged heart.

Now you don鈥檛 expect this to please everyone, do you? Wole Soyinka, whom many readers complain is inaccessible, says, 鈥淒on鈥檛 feel that you have to tailor your literature in a particular way to please any school of ideology.鈥?And he is right.

Writing to please means you won鈥檛 be yourself. As it were, you need to be inspired to write and nothing chases the muse away faster than the burden of pleasing. A terrible experience will yield better stimulus than the problem of appeasing your readers. Striving to please readers will not only neuter your imagination but also cause you to lose your voice; you won鈥檛 be able to say what you want for fear of offending people. With your voice drowned, you will quickly lose credibility because you will appear to be clutching at straws.

Ideas flow best when you are in charge of your writing. Being in control is as exciting as the vigour of youth in old age 鈥?it is literally and literary your spring. With a borrowed personality, you will likely run dry midway.

Once during an interview, Chinua Achebe was asked if he ever showed his raw manuscripts to anyone. He said no. He would keep on writing and when he would finally decide to submit his manuscript to his editor, he believed he would have given out the best. If you are chained to the load of pleasing, the act of writing loses the pleasure that the muse usually generates.

Competition writing

However, as a writer you must be aware of your environment. Be cognisant of the contemporary issues that readers wish to interrogate 鈥?your private creativity will eventually be consumed in the public reading square.

There will be occasions when you may write to please a small group of readers or a publisher. It is not wrong. Stephen King says, 鈥淵ou can鈥檛 please all the readers all of the time; you can鈥檛 please even some of the readers all the time, but you really ought to try to please some readers some of the time.鈥?
An example of this rare occasion is when submitting your work for a competition. In this case, you will be forced to tailor your writing to the requirements of the competition 鈥?still, you must endeavour to mark your territory, leave your footprint.

Apart from the rare occasions, write and then put up your umbrella for the ubiquitous criticism to fall off it 鈥?it is bound to come from the objective ones and from the 鈥榙eplorables鈥?too.

Obviously, it takes more than saying to take such a position. It requires you to have deep roots of conviction and passion about what you write about. It also requires you to know that writing, like anything else, is politics and in politics you must learn to advance your argument and support it.

As we slowly draw the curtains on 2016, you must be reviewing your literary resolutions and wondering how many were implemented. There was that poetry collection you kept to yourself, the short story you never submitted for reviewing, and the novel you never finished.

Pleasing your readers could be the reason your literary resolutions were not realised. You can plan to draw from within the inspiration of 鈥榯he original鈥?to write and be published come 2017. Always remember, it is the light beneath that gives each cloud a silver lining."
"0 SHARES Share Tweet

Some of the veterans of Kenya鈥檚 pop music scene Just A Band, Camp Mulla, and Xtatic will be taking part in a massive project next year with a band of producers and DJs from Portugal鈥檚 capital city, Lisbon.

At a launch in Nairobi on Thursday, it was revealed that the project will be part of a bigger three year undertaking involving ten cities around the world, namely; Nairobi, Johannesburg, Lagos, Cairo, Luanda, Lisbon, Naples, Bristol, Kiev and Berlin.

鈥淏asically, take the recent Berlin Nairobi project (BLNRB) and multiply it by five. This is what will be happening,鈥?said Johannes Hossfeld, director of Goethe-institut Kenya, which is spearheading the initiative.

The collaborations play like a social experiment of sorts, because apart from the merging music, research will be carried out in each of the cities to examine the club culture, urban space and public sphere and see how that links to the music.

鈥淚t鈥檚 interesting how different the cultures are in each of these places and how they have a direct relation to the music there. This Ten Cities project will take a closer look into that,鈥?said Johannes.

The main genre of the melodies will be electronic to mirror the emergence of this kind of music across the world, and it will only be distinguished by the cities鈥?individual influences.

鈥淢usyoka and another producer Raphael will be part of this project,鈥?said JAB鈥檚 Blinky Bill, who was the curator for the Kenyan version of Ten Cities.

Octa Push 鈥?who are brothers 鈥?will be visiting Nairobi in May 2013 with Lisbon counterpart Batida and Berlin鈥檚 Jahcoozi, and work on their music in the city in the sun for up to three weeks.

The project kicked off in Angola last month, and will move on to Lagos in January, Johannesburg the next month, Cairo in March and April before coming to Nairobi.

The second phase of the project in late 2013 will involve the African side travelling to Europe for a similar exchange.

鈥淭here will be a CD compilation at the end of the project,鈥?promised Johannes, who intimated that the entire venture would cost about Sh50 million.

鈥淎s Goethe-institut Kenya, this is our biggest project yet,鈥?Johannes said.

(Visited 73 times, 1 visits today)

0 SHARES Share Tweet"

The Goethe-institut e.V. plans to commission freelancers to support participants in online training courses. online training courses are offered in the field of methodology/didactics for german as a foreign language (daf), german as a second language (daz), cultural learning and media didactics. this includes both online individual training courses and online group training courses. a detailed description of the required service can be found in appendix a service description.Lot 1 tutoring of online individual training according to the information on the website www.Goethe.De/fortbildungtutoring of online group courses according to the information on the website www.Goethe.De/fortbildung
2
The Culture Moves Europe programme launched two calls for application; the first for individual mobility of artists and cultural professionals and the second for residency hosts.

The individual mobility action is open for all artists and cultural professionals who are legal residents of the Creative Europe countries, including Tunisia, and at least 18 years old .The deadline set for next May 31.

The individual mobility action covers the sectors of architecture, cultural heritage, design and fashion design, literary translation, music, performing arts and visual arts.

The second call for application is for the residency action which provides financial support to organisations and artists registered as legal entities, in one of the 40 Creative Europe countries. The deadline is set for next June 15.

The purpose of the grant is to welcome international artists and cultural professionals at your premises to implement a residency project. The participating artists and cultural professionals must be legal residents in a Creative Europe country that is different from the host's country.

Funded by the creative Europe programme of the European Union, Culture Moves Europe is implemented by the Goethe-institut and provides mobility grants for artists and cultural professionals in all 40 creative Europe countries.
3
 The Culture Moves Europe programme launched two calls for application; the first for individual mobility of artists and cultural professionals and the second for residency hosts.

The individual mobility action is open for all artists and cultural professionals who are legal residents of the Creative Europe countries, including Tunisia, and at least 18 years old .The deadline set for next May 31.

The individual mobility action covers the sectors of architecture, cultural heritage, design and fashion design, literary translation, music, performing arts and visual arts.

The second call for application is for the residency action which provides financial support to organisations and artists registered as legal entities, in one of the 40 Creative Europe countries. The deadline is set for next June 15.

The purpose of the grant is to welcome international artists and cultural professionals at your premises to implement a residency project. The participating artists and cultural professionals must be legal residents in a Creative Europe country that is different from the host's country.

Funded by the creative Europe programme of the European Union, Culture Moves Europe is implemented by the Goethe-institut and provides mobility grants for artists and cultural professionals in all 40 creative Europe countries.
4
Take us to the Water is a digital interactive map which makes up the Cyprus participation in Goethe-institut's project Atlas of Mediterranean Liquidity. The map consists of artworks by Stelios Kallinikou and Korallia Stergides, curated by Evagoras Vanezis and developed by Demetris Shammas. The results of the project and research around it will be presented at the Goethe-institut from Saturday until May 6. The presentation will start with a public roundtable discussion with the curator and artists and conclude with a series of short lectures.

Atlas of Mediterranean Liquidity is a regional project with the participation of Israel, Greece, Croatia, Italy, Egypt, Turkey and Cyprus, which is led by the Goethe-institut Tel Aviv. It examines questions regarding the approach to water, the notion of water as a habitat, environmental pollution and disasters in the sea. The concept behind this collection of digital maps is to bring together as many voices, perspectives, narratives and agencies of people who live around the Mediterranean. Following the water streams, the atlas reveals conflicts and collaborations in the region; the geography of water -- crossing national borders, communities and cultures -- bringing to the surface all the challenges but also, the potential of our region.

In Take us to the Water the present's status as a contested arena of politics and memory takes on the textures of new possibilities. Looking at Cyprus from above and in the darkest hour, as this map suggests, is one way of acknowledging that the urgent flows of our times, such as those of climate change and environmental emergencies, demand new navigation tools that allow us to glide across lines of separation, prevalent as they are in other mappings of the island.

Through Kallinikou's photography and Stergides' poetry, the public is invited to navigate the map in different ways: embracing fragmentariness, listening to a part of the recited poem while viewing photographs of their choice; or viewing the complete set of photographs while listening to the poem as a whole, or any other combination.

From Saturday onwards, the Goethe-institut invites audiences to roam around a room filled with research about the themes and ideas that influenced the creation of Take Us to the Water online map. The presentation of the project will start with a roundtable discussion in English with Kallinikou, Stergides and Vanezis at the Goethe-institut at 11am. As a conclusion to the project presentation, experts Floridou, Hadjimichael and Tselika will on May 6 (at 11am) give short lectures (again in English) on different topics related to water in Cyprus, from its sea shores to river waters, followed by a discussion.
5
Siemens intends to further expand its cultural commitment in Egypt and is supporting an exceptional opera production in Alexandria for the first time. Together with the German cultural institution Goethe-institut, the Egyptian conductor Nayer Nagui and the Bibliotheca Alexandrina library, the Siemens Arts Program is making the Egyptian premiere of Mozarts Don Giovanni possible. The performance will take place at the Bibliotheca Alexandrina at 7 p.m. on Thursday, May 18, 2023.

One purpose of our activities is to promote diversity and equal opportunity in the cultural sphere, too, said Stephan Frucht, Artistic Director of the Siemens Arts Program. Our approach to continuing education, which is an approach that places a strong emphasis on sustainably developing musical theater, also plays a major role for young people in Egypt. In the process, intercultural skills become a universal capacity that encourages people to embrace peaceful and cooperative togetherness.

German opera director Manuel Schmitt is directing the production. Set and costume designer Bernhard Siegl, who is also from Germany, is overseeing the design of the stage-set and costumes. He will also be training Bibliotheca staff in both areas. With this German-Egyptian education project, the production team aims to provide fresh momentum for Alexandrias opera tradition, develop further expertise within Bibliotheca Alexandrinas choir and foster talented young singers. The project is also seeking to build local skills in the directing of operas and in stage-set and costume design, all with an eye to fostering sustainable, continuing development in the area of musical theater.

This staging of Don Giovanni is the only opera production at the Bibliotheca Alexandrina this year and marks a highlight among the few opera performances in Egypt, said director Manuel Schmitt. For me, the coming together of two very different cultural spheres the Central European with the Egyptian makes rehearsing and performing Don Giovanni in Egypt a very special and important cultural endeavor. The language of Mozart and Da Ponte becomes a common language for people who have very different cultural backgrounds and thus also view this opera from very different perspectives. This grappling with the operatic work and the themes it addresses is a fundamental component of the staging work. In this project, the context-based portrayal of sexuality, violence against women, masculinity and femininity, and the questioning of identity roles, as well as similar topics, are to be discussed from the viewpoints of two cultural traditions and then lead to a multicultural performance.

For the ensemble of soloists, the Siemens Arts Program initiated an international casting call to fill the roles of Donna Anna and Leporello. The casting jury chose Mexican baritone Antonio Azpiri and Serbian/Bulgarian soprano Isidora Moles. The jury consisted of conductor Nayer Nagui, director Manuel Schmitt and the Siemens Arts Program.

Alexandria has always been a cosmopolitan city where opera, musical theater and concerts of all kinds have always been present and have created a strong community engaged in cultural activities, said director Nayer Nagui. Projects like these bring back this Belle poque while including young artists give the city a future and sustainability."

Sabine Erlenwein, Head of the Goethe-institut in Alexandria, adds: This production of Don Giovanni stands for strengthening international artistic and cultural ex-change. The collaborative synergy between the German director, German set and stage designer, the international singers, and the choir of the Bibliotheca Alexandria under the baton of conductor Nayer Nagui will make the work to stage Don Giovanni an exciting and creative experience for everyone involved. The process of staging the opera is something very special as is the prospect of being able to thrill thousands of Egyptian opera fans with Mozarts music.
6
On the 20th anniversary of the opening of crossing points in Cyprus, the documentary film Overcoming is coming to Cyprus to tell a unique tale of its islanders. As a local production, the film tells the inspiring story of Cypriot women, queers, and antimilitarist men challenging militarism and gender norms. On April 22 Overcoming will be screened at the Goethe-institut, followed by a brief discussion.

Through diverse interviews, the film explores how the opening and closing of the checkpoints, as the sole passageways between north and south, have impacted the lives of Cypriots while revealing their struggles against the ongoing division of the island and their efforts towards a more united future.

Written by Besire Paralik and Firuzan Nalbantoý-lu and translated by a number of Cypriots, the film is a collaborative effort of Cyprus residents across the divide. Lasting just a few minutes over an hour, the film screening will be free for the public to attend in an effort to share unique stories.

Overcoming

Documentary-film screening premiere. April 22. Goethe-institut Cyprus, Nicosia. 6.30pm. Free. documentaryprojectcy@gmail.com
7
As Easter draws closer, the Cypriot-German Cultural Association will hold a day of outdoor fun for young ones. The Easter Crafts and Egg Hunt Day will take children on an entertaining scavenger hunt around the green garden of Goethe-institut Zypern on April 2 from 11am to 1pm.

"Can you follow the Easter bunny's footprints and find all the hidden eggs?" ask the organisers. "Join us on Sunday, April 2 for a fun morning with Easter activities. Children will have the opportunity to make Easter crafts, compete in games such as egg races and look for hidden Easter eggs."

And the day will not be fun just for children, parents will also get the chance to get crafty and learn new creative techniques. A paper origami corner will entertain adults while they enjoy coffee, tea and traditional Easter treats. What's more, participation in the fun-day is completely free!

Easter Crafts and Egg Hunt

Children's Easter games and paper origami workshop for adults. By the Cypriot-German Cultural Association. April 2. Goethe-institut Zypern, Nicosia. 11am-1pm. Free
8
The March Dance Festival, a contemporary dance festival hosting performances, workshops, dance films and open conversations to investigate contemporary thought and action, is set to happen from March 17-26, at Goethe-institut, Max Mueller Bhavan here. The event is jointly organised with Basement 21, a group of artists who seek to focus not only on the artistic product but also the process to reconstruct the corporeal thought behind the choreographies along with learning the artists' legacy and the message they want to convey. In its fifth year, the show boasts solo and ensemble performances by artists from all over India, there are also special workshops by the artists, Padmini Chettur, Meera Krishnamurthy and Krishna Devanandan, Pravin Kannanur and Maarten Visser.Surjit Nongmeikapam from Imphal, Manipur, is performing with his team of six and said the audience can look forward to an intricate performance which takes inspiration from the unseen culture of Manipur. "Meepao, the dance form we are to perform is a dance in celebration of all the departed, especially the ones who are deemed inconsequential. Using minimal movements, Meepao invites the spectator into a space where dancers and non-dancers alike can join in this celebration. We have created this ritual ceremony to celebrate the unsung heroes of everyday life such as farm labourers, carpenters and street vendors who usually go unnoticed."Deepanwita Roy from Silguri, West Bengal, who is set to perform a contemporary solo, said "The piece I will be performing called "Rituals of Fall " is inspired by nature and the law of conservation of energy. Our bodies carry genetic memories passed down from our ancestors. My act focuses on need for evolution to transform old energy into another form to welcome the new."
9
The Eddie Mantu Gibson-led Liberia Movie Union (LIMU) has attracted the European Union (EU), and two EU's member-States (France and Germany) toward LIMU's Film Education (or Performing Arts) education in Liberia.

The Partners met at a four-day (1-4 March, 2023) Brainstorming, Practical, and Memorandum of Understanding (MoU)-signing ceremonies, and certifications ceremonies. Titled "Training Workshop Culture and Creative Industries: Audio for Video Production", the event was held at the NetLib. Vocational Training Institute (NVTI) in Congo Town.

The major sponsor of the event was the European Union Mission in Liberia. The EU supported the Project through its Culture and Creative Arts Department. Its partners were: African, Carribean, Pacific Oceans (ACPO), Goethe-institut (German), Institut Francais (French), Kore, NaFORO-BA (Cote D' Voire), and Pentatonic Sound (Cote D' Voice)

The first three days were dedicated to practical on Sound Engineering and Videography. These segments were facilitated by representatives of the Cote D' Voire-based Institutions-- NaFORO-BA and Pentatonic Sound. The former was represented by Adama Adepoju; the latter was represented by Adolphe Yace.

The body of trainees was comprised by LIMU members and persons not in the fold of LIMU.

"If Senator John A. Ballout were not standing behind me, I won't have achieved the successes I'm now achieving at the Liberia Movie Union," Mr. Eddie Mantu Gibson said during his remarks on Day Four of the event. He added: "If we, Liberians, do not tell our story, people of other Countries won't do that for us. Or, if foreigners write Liberia's stories, some of them will distort them against our Country."

Mr. Gibson's passion for the Film Industry began from his Elementary Day in his childhood Community (New Kru Town, in Monrovia) "The name of the first Movie I wrote and produced is Tribal Feud, about ethnic clashes between the Kru and Sarpo people in my County, Sinoe, during the Liberian civil war," he had told a body of Journalists at one of LIMU's Film-related programs in 2021.

"My leadership took over a struggling Film Industry. Many of the people in the Liberian Film Industry are poor," LIMU president Eddie M. Gibson disclosed other problems being experienced by the Union.

"Eddie Gibson has brought a lot of dynamism and vision into the Liberia Movie Union," declared Mr. John A. Ballout, Chairman of LIMU's Board of Directors, and former Senator of Maryland County, during the 53rd Legislature, when Madam Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf was Head of State of Liberia (2006-2017)

He added, that when he was in the Senate, he lobbied with his Senatorial colleagues to add LIMU to the Government's National Budgetary list for promotion of Liberia's culture and entertainment through Films or Movie.

"But, the story has changed--the current Senate isn't doing what we were doing," the LIMU Board Chair lamented.

On promotion of Liberia's Arts and culture, Mr. Ballout is nationally known for two of his personal contributions. The first was his huge financial support for and personal presence at the Monrovia's Inter-High Schools Drama Contest in 2019 (when he was Senator) The second (when he was out of the Senate) was his financial support to the organization of the first post-war Liberia's Entertainment Summit (21-22, October, 2021) organized by Shizo Entertainment, owned by Mr. Duploex Rickey Jaeploe, a popular arts and music promoter popular. The event was held at Destiny Event Center on the Capitol Bye-Pass, Monrovia.

The president of the Center for Educational Services in Liberia (CENSIL), Mr. Edwin Kalama, said his Institution is looking for Teachers for a new Course, Performing Arts, added to CENSIL's list of subjects.

"We will accept only persons with Bachelor's Degree or Associate Degree. For those who want to be students for this course, there will be no Entrance Exam for members of the Liberia Movie Union," the CENSIL president added.

Mr. Sylvannus Turay, former president of the Liberia Movie Union, challenged current members of LIMU to produced quality Films that will be loved by citizens of other Countries, like Films of other African Countries are loved by many Liberian movie lovers.

Filmmakers were given time to tell the audience about their journey through the Liberian Film Industry. Three of them were Zuama Sambolah, Rita G. Paye, and Kolubo K. Kokulo. The trio was a representative body of Talking Drum Studio, Liberia's current leading Radio-channeled Drama platform for education and peace-related solutions to national problems

"I am an Actress. My being with Talking Drum Studio is putting food on the table for my family, which my exclusive reliance on Acting wasn't doing," Actress Kolubo K. Kokulo narrated to the body of participants.

The Ambassador of Germany, His Excellency Jakob Hasel Huber, said his Country's Government spent, through Goethe-institut, spent US$2.4 billion in 2023 for Democracy-related promotion, through promotion of Arts and Culture (in Films/Movies) in many African Countries and other parts of the World.

"I hope Liberia will build a Cinema or a Theater Center for those aspiring to be filmmakers or to feature in Movies to learn," the German Envoy indirectly tasked the Liberian Government and other stakeholders in the Country's Film Industry.

The representative of the French Embassy, Mr. Harve Goudal, Deputy Head of Mission, said his Country's involvement, through the Country's Diplomatic Mission, in the LIMU-organized event was predominantly based on France being a member of the European Union that promotes Films-channeled Arts and Cultures around the Globe.

"It is important to have a movie education school in Liberia," the French Embassy's representative told the Liberians.

The Event concluded with LIMU's certifications of persons whose filmic productions stood out, in terms of quality in stages of filmmaking; and Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between LIMU and Institutions teaching Performing Arts. The MoU was for collaboration on Curriculum Development for the teaching of Performing Arts based on the Teacher's possession of Associate of Arts Degree.

Certificates presentations were done by representatives of the German and French Embassies and Chairman of LIMU's Board of Directors. Twenty persons received corticates.

Prior to LIMU's four-day sensitization program, only the State-owned University of Liberia (UL) and the Center for Educational Services in Liberia (CENSIL) were offering Performing Arts, as a Course, LIMU president Eddie M. Gibson disclosed to Journalists.

The Masters of Ceremony were: Duke Murphy of Radio Monrovia, and Fred Snorten of Liberia Movie Union.

"We have received two calls from two persons with Bachelor Degrees, who expressed their interests to teach Theater Arts," LIMU president told this writer Tuesday, March 7, 2023.
10
The German Ambassador to Cairo, Frank Hartmann, stated that the education file is of the utmost importance to the German government.

The German Ambassador to Cairo, Frank Hartmann, said that in the field of pre-university education, there is interest in qualifying teachers and building capacities in schools.

After the meeting with the Director of Education in Aswan Governorate, Abd al-Karim Lotfy expressed the governorate's intense need to train German language teachers, as 19,000 students are studying German in the governorate, adding that Egypt is the second largest country in the world that has German schools after Spain.

The ambassador stressed that training to qualify teachers includes training on curricula, teaching methods, and school administration, not just language teaching.

As for the field of higher education, the ambassador added, there is already cooperation with the German Academic Exchange Service, which has offices in Cairo.

"A large number of Egyptians have been granted scholarships in Germany, and we are currently trying to expand these scholarships to Aswan. There are German universities represented at the "Germany Days" events, and there is already close cooperation between 30 German universities and Aswan University in the field of scientific publishing." He added.

For his part, Ayman Othman, President of Aswan University, stated during the opening of the Germany Days activities that the relationship with Germany is very strong. This is especially true in the field of scientific cooperation. He added that this close cooperation allowed Aswan University to have an advanced ranking at the level of universities in the world.

The German ambassador inaugurated recently the "Germany Days", which will last for two days, during the ambassador's current visit to Aswan.

Through this special series of activities and events, Germany wants to bring German culture, language, and education closer to the people of Aswan and encourage exchange and dialogue, together with the German Academic Exchange Service (DAAD), the Goethe-institut, the German Archaeological Institute (DAI) in addition to many German universities. In close cooperation with Aswan University, a diverse program has been arranged that includes:

Sessions on studying and working in Germany.

Research opportunities in Aswan and Germany.

An individual counselling session with German universities.

Workshops on scientific research and intercultural communication.

Lectures by experts in archaeology.

A panel discussion on renewable energy and biodiversity.

Movies and shows.

All events and activities are free and open to the public.

Among the participating universities is the Free University of Berlin, the Technical University of Berlin, the University of Marburg, and the University of Cologne (online).
11
A contemporary dance event 'Small Contemporary Dance Congress' was held on Monday, evening at the Drik Studio premise in, Dhaka

Director of Goethe-institut Bangladesh Frank Werner welcomed the audience and thanked Sudeshna and Tahnun for their initiative to organize the exciting event, said a press release.

The event started with a contemporary dance performance choreographed and presented by Sudeshna Swayamprabha and Tahnun Ahmedy duo, where they incorporated contemporary issues that they feel are important to discuss and bring out and express in their own contemporary way.

The dance performance was followed by a documentary film screening on the Bangladeshi dance scene directed by Tahnun.

Courtesy

The congress event ended with a talk, where Sudeshna and Tahnun together shared their experiences and takes from the Tanz Kongress Mainz and answered various questions from the attending audience during the QandA session.

The other activities of the small dance congress were a contemporary dance workshop conducted together by Sudeshna and Tahnun duo. A group of 14 dancers participated in this workshop that took place on Monday.

The dancers Sudeshna Swayamprabha and Tahnun Ahmedy together presented the event to share insights on their participation in the Tanzkongress 2022, which had taken place from June 16-19 last year, at the Staatstheater Mainz, Germany.

This dance festival acts as a site of exchange for both dancers and the broader dance scene.

Afterward, they travelled to the city of Bremen to participate in a weeklong Artistic Residency at the Theatre Bremen.
12
Back in the day when the phonograph record was the main format for music reproduction, fans would pack record stores flipping through the racks for the latest releases.In today's music streaming world, many fans are still excited by vinyl records and music-playing devices of the era, from the gramophone to the jukebox.Vinyl aficionado and music producer George "Jojo" Odhiambo who has been collecting records since 1978, has put up 500 Long Play (LP) discs in an exhibition named Muziki Santuri: Legacies of Vinyl Records and Popular Lifestyles, which opened last Friday at the Goethe-institut in Nairobi.When the BDLife caught up with him at the opening of the exhibition last weekend, he spoke about the challenge of selecting the exhibits from his private collection of 6,000 vinyl records."It was a big headache choosing the final records from the collection because friends would come and say "don't take this one, replace with this other one," says Odhiambo.He turned to Artistic Performance Creator Aghan Odero Agan to develop the concept for the exhibition. "This is the music of Kenya, East Africa, the continent and the world, " explains Agan."The exhibition represents the different eras of music and the technology that supported the vinyl format hence the inclusion of the record player and the jukebox."Odhiambo says the objective of the exhibition is twofold: showcase his vinyl collection and create awareness among the generations born after the vinyl era.Indeed, there have been several school parties trooping into the auditorium since the official opening last Friday. "Some of the younger people call the vinyl records, big CDs," says an amused Odhiambo.Collecting music is more than just a passion for the founder of the music label Jojo Records; he has been producing benga records in Nairobi's River Road for more than four decades.Legendary producers from the 1970s and 80s including Phares Oluoch Kanindo, A.P. Chandarana, and Andrew Crawford, sparked his interest in the music business.Over the years, he built up a collection from these producers while buying music at iconic Nairobi stores, Assanands and Melodica.The albums at the exhibition take visitors on a trip through Kenyan music, right from the 1950s pioneer George Mukabi to 70s benga maestros, D.O Misiani, Victoria Jazz Band, D.K. Kamau and Joseph Kamaru, and 1970s soul star Slim Ali.The African section displays albums by Congolese giants Franco, Johnny Bokelo, Tshala Muana, Mbilia Bel and Tabu Ley and Verkys and another part is devoted to giants Manu Dibango and Fela Kuti.Visual artist Solomon Luvai drew two murals for the exhibition, Fela on one side of the wall and another of Ugandan musician Sammy Kasule holding a nyatiti.The exhibition also includes albums by global icons like The Jacksons, Elvis Presley and Lionel Richie, Bob Marley, Black Uhuru, Eddy Grant and Lucky Dube.A fresh lot of exhibits will be introduced during each week of the exhibition which is open till 9th March 2023.The organisers have been elated by the interest in the exhibition. "This is beyond all my expectations," says Odhiambo "There has been a constant stream of people of all ages checking out the vinyl records."Twice, in the course of the interview, he excuses himself to remind a group of excited youngsters taking pictures to be careful around the fragile exhibits.Last weekend there were visiting school parties from Alliance Girls, Nembu Girls, Starehe Boys and Starehe Girls. "It has been fun being here," says Sam Goko who is a Form 4 student at Starehe Boys, part of a group of German language learners from the school visiting the exhibition.My dad listens to classics so I am familiar with some of the names around the room," he says, pointing to albums by Fela Kuti, The Police, and Elton John."But this is the first time I am seeing the vinyl records so this is quite an experience," he adds."I was just explaining to my friends how the jukebox used to operate.""We want to showcase the musical heritage of Kenya in its original medium so we have provided this space to Jojo to do justice to his collection of vinyl," says Niklas Obermann, cultural programme officer at Goethe-institut.He has been so struck by the interest from visitors of different generations. "We are getting the young people taking pictures and posting on social media and some of the older collectors are also coming in to take a look at the exhibition," says Obermann."These are collector's items and in a few years these records will be very hard to find," says Agan. "This is the first in a series of exhibitions that will also focus on specific genres and artists, covering different musical formats, from the vinyl to today's technology.
13
Entertainment Desk :

An exhibition, a video performance and

a musical concert were organised to

celebrate the 'Boat Project' recently

at Shyambazar Kheyaghat (docks) in

Old Dhaka, said a press release.

This exhibition was the result of a workshop titled 'Learning from Puran Dhaka: The Urbanity of Occupations along the Buriganga Riverfront,' in which 50 students and faculty from Dhaka, Mumbai, Trivandrum and Paris participated. The photo exhibition by students of Pathshala South Asian Media Institute was on displayed. Besides, an entertainment event by 'Joler Gaan' was also held along the Ghat. The performance was organised on a traditional boat to commemorate Old Dhaka's intangible heritage. Video Performance by Ramona Poenaru and Gaël Chaillat of Compagnie Des Châteaux en l'air portrayed the customs and the daily life activities of the people along the ghat at Ruplal House through the projection. The 'Boat Project' is curated by Ashfika Rahman.

The exhibition was organised by the participating students of the workshop at different places at Old Dhaka where the students were divided into eight different groups to map life along the river, investigate endangered heritage and the micro economy. It is led by Alliance Française, Goethe-institut, British Council, the Spanish Embassy and the EU Delegation in Bangladesh, with support from the Embassy of the Netherlands.
14
Goethe-institut inaugurated a multimedia installation depicting the precarious ôcritical zoneö on the Earth's surface that acts as a fragile common ground for all living matter. The travelling exhibition opened at Indian Museum on Sunday. The project envisions disentangling questions raised about these zones with explorations in art and philosophy, to demonstrate that the fields of science, art and culture have to come together for better understanding of the environments that humans and other living organisms belong to. The term 'critical zones' was originally used in pure science to signify the outer layer of Earth, which extends to a depth of a few kilometres. All living matter survives here. Curator Lena Reitschuster argued that these discussions in science cannot be separated from art, philosophy and the economy. ôThese ecologies have a direct impact on everythingfrom rivers to micro- bes to our food,ö she said. The exhibition featured video footage and digital representations of these zones. A notable on-site installation by Maksud Ali Mondal called ôWe are What We Eatö demonstrated different fungi transforming over a period of time to grow into mushrooms and other living organisms before decomposing. Calling the array of displays synthesizing art, philosophy and science a ôthought exhibitionö, curator Mira Hirtz suggested that observing this dialogue can be confusing or frustrating to first-time audiences. ôWe don't know enough about life on Earth and how different life forms function together,ö she said. ôCritical zonesö was conceptually developed by French philosopher Bruno Latour, who passed away in 2022 during the preparation of the touring exhibition. Deploying Latour's foundational ideas, the exhibition was first set up at ZKM Centre for Art and Media, Karlsruhe, Germany, between 2020 and 2022.
15
Friendly and gregarious as a child, Malik loved to play-act with his friends, sometimes gathering all the neighbourhood kids for a bigger production, teaching them to act and sing. Is it a surprise that he found his ikigai [Japanese concept of finding your purpose in life that would bring you joy every day and explore your full potential] in performing arts?

He also wrote stories for Akhbar-e-Jahan, children's magazines Naunehal and Bachon ki Dunya as a child. 'I love writing and creating live theatre for children,' he says. 'I am still a very social person and love to be around people.'

In 2002, he joined TV and began working as a TV producer, programme manager and was soon hosting morning shows. Just three years later, Malik wanted set up his own theatre group and requested Zia Mohiuddin to draft the constitution.

'Zia sahib gave me tremendous support and encouragement in establishing the Thespianz Foundation in 2005,' he recalls. 'It is a not-for-profit performing arts organisation where performers, writers, directors, and creative heads produce social theater for rural audiences and marginalised communities. We have taken our plays to rural audiences in hundreds of villages and small towns in Pakistan, several times.'

Malik's theatre foundation has produced over 179 theatre plays, 71 dance plays, 1276 string puppet performances all over the country as well as abroad in 19 countries, including the US and Canada.

The art of puppetry has always been a great tool for creating socio-political awareness through humour and entertainment to the masses, and especially rural audiences and Malik has a passion for string puppetry. 'At the National Academy of Performing Arts (NAPA), we crafted the puppets and performed in local cultural houses and festivals. Later, in a joint venture with Goethe-institut, the Thespianz Theatre created mobile theatre productions The Flying Classroom and The Flying Theatre where our performing stage was on a bus or a truck that travelled through villages, cities and towns through the country.'

Apart from the biennial Pakistan String Puppetry Festival regaling audiences in most parts of Karachi, the Thespianz Theatre has also organised and performed in the Spring Holidays Cultural Festival, Pakistan String Puppetry Festival, the 2nd Pakistan String Puppetry Festival in 79 areas of Karachi with 330 string puppetry performances, Young Colours Festival performed in 40 schools of Karachi, and the Thespianz Folk Festival in Khairpur where leading artists from all over the country performed.

Malik's mobile theatre crafts stories to create an awareness about social justice, human rights, women's and children's rights, disability rights, peace and tolerance, and anti-drug campaigns primarily among rural audiences.

'As a performing arts activist, theatre is my tool that I use to try and bring about a social change,' says Malik. 'Sometimes we use soft images to reach out to people, at other times we use strong words in our dialogue, or talk about taboo issues or bitter truth that people don't always like to hear. But whether it is puppets or actor, lines spoken or a situation depicted, our purpose is to connect with people's hearts and minds. And it is very rewarding to see that instead of getting offended at the harsh reality being depicted, people applaud.'

Malik's first theatre production was before he had even graduated from NAPA. 'The culture department of the Sindh government invited us to stage a play during a fashion show at the Expo Centre,' he says. 'So we performed Umer Marvi, the Sindhi folklore for which the chief minister awarded us Rs1M. It was extremely motivating and we were all over the news.'

It was not all hunky dory for Malik, there were difficult days too, but he rose out of adversities because of his passion and commitment. 'We were in the process of building a 600-seat auditorium that would be known as the Thespianz Performing Arts Centre,' Malik recalls. 'This was at a railway godown, through a temporary lease. We spent over Rs17M in construction and refurbishing work and just the air conditioning, seating and carpeting were left. One morning, someone who claimed to own the godown arrived and confiscated our electronic lighting system, sound equipment, puppetry stuff, electrical appliances and even the tiles for flooring. He wanted to rent out the place for fashion shoots, private parties and TV recordings. We talked to many authorities to help us but in vain, and we lost all our money.'

A fellow of the State Department at the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, he has worked with Chicago Opera Theatre. A fellow of ARTTHINK South Asia, a global network of the British Council and Goethe-institut. He has successfully demonstrated his craft at 100 years old Munich Kammerspiele and Germany's famous dance company Sasha Waltz and Guests GmbH. Malik has been associated with the Iqra University and CBM as a Faculty Member of Media Sciences, apart from rendering his services as a producer at different TV Channels. He has to his credit more than 400 theatre and arts management workshops organised worldwide and has served as a director in the Pakistan Chapter of the UN International Association of Theater for Children and Young People. Acknowledging his talent and significant contributions within a short period, the Ministry of Culture has recently awarded him with a Token of Appreciation.

After completing his early education in Lahore where he was born, Malik moved to Karachi for his graduation from Government Science College and his Master's in International Relations from the University of Karachi. In 2008, he acquired his Performing Arts Education from NAPA.

'My grandfather Malik Lal Hussain was Commissioner Sialkot before partition, and his portrait still adorns the walls of Sialkot Municipal Corporation,' says Malik, talking about his family. 'My mother's grandfather Malik Muhammad Sarwar was in the Army was martyred in the 1965 war. My father was an engineer and seeing that the eldest of four siblings and studious, he wanted me to become an aeronautical engineer. But with my leaning towards creativity and art, I was destined for performing arts despite my family's expectation from me to follow their path and have a more traditional career. I got into engineering college, but it was my admission in NAPA that really defined what I wanted to do. My parents were always positive and supportive about accepting my passion and I am very grateful to them for allowing me to pursue, what I love doing. Life is not easy for everyone, but I am fortunate to have lived on my terms, and I never had to compromise on my commitment to performing art.'

In a world obsessed with machines, robots, smartphones and information technology, Malik's tools and toys are string puppetry and theatre.

'I believe in modernisation and we should keep ourselves updated as per the need of time,' he says. 'The world is changing and becoming more and more technological and materialistic. Robots are taking over everything and it seems that live theatre is out of vogue. But there will always be a need for aesthetics, humanity and performing art. Films and television productions are still being made, similarly theatre will remain a strong social tool. We may have to adjust and adapt, we can explore social media and digital tools to stay in touch with modernisation and technology that can be utilised in live theatre.'

Malik would like to see the younger generation try and explore new ideas in their careers or businesses and their lives. He feels that if you resolve to never give up, you will always achieve your goals.
16
Within the framework of the project Foodprint: The Mediterrnean Diet Revisited, the Goethe-institut Cyprus is organising a cooking and photography workshop this February. The hands-on experience will get participants cooking as guided by a professional chef and learning food photography tips from an industry professional.

Talking about the project's theme, the organisers say: "The Mediterranean Diet has been recognised by Unesco as part of humanity's intangible heritage. It is based on seasonality and consists mostly of plant-based foods, such as vegetables, grains, nuts, legumes and fruits, while it includes few or no animal products."

February 11's cooking workshop will invite participants to cook vegetarian recipes using seasonal and local produce. These recipes have been inspired by the Mediterranean diet and developed by chef Manolis Melissaris (also known as the ð©oneð©y oð©ive), who will lead the cooking part of the workshop. Everyone who participates will receive a leaflet with the recipes prepared at the workshop so that they can cook them at home, as well as interviews and information on the Mediterranean diet.

The second half of the workshop will be led by photographer Stelios Demetriou who will give participants tips on what to pay attention to when photographing food with their mobile phones, both during the food preparation process as well as the finished dishes.

The cooking and photography workshop will take place in a professional kitchen at Smoky Dee's, between 10am and 2pm, giving participants the opportunity not only to see what professional kitchens look like but to prepare food in this environment themselves. The workshop will end with enjoying the meal that was jointly prepared, accompanied by a glass of local wine.

Free to join, following registration, only 12 spots are available for those aged 16 and above so if interested, register before February 8.
17
Commissioned by Samdani Art Foundation, Kiran Nadar Museum of Art, Latbian Center for Contemporary Art with support of SAHA and Goethe-institut Bangladesh

Performers tower over the public walking on bamboo stilts that are both support structures and also protest banners highlighting difficult-to-find products and materials in Bangladesh, a precious balancing act inviting us to consider what we might take for granted as we exert ourselves in the world.

All Day - AFRAH SHAFIQ, WHERE DO THE ANTS GO? 2022-2023

Commissioned by Samdani Art Foundation with support of To Gather, Pro Helvetia, Swiss Arts Council

Audiences can enter a large-scale sculpture of an anthill to interact with a digital colony of ants that 'live' within an immersive video game inside. Using real time inputs, 'players' within the anthill make choices that affect the behavior of the individual ants and the collective outcome of the colony that functions in sync with emotions expressed via a custom data collection exercise in Bangladesh in the lead-up to the summit.

Feb 3-5, 10 and 11 (10am - 1pm) - BISHWAJIT GOSWAMI, REETU, 2022-2023

Commissioned by Samdani Art Foundation

This mural and participatory installation draws parallels between seasons of human and non-human life, drawing emotions out of visitors in a way that they are publicly visible like flowers in Spring.

All Day - ROMAN ONDAK, MEASURING THE UNIVERSE, 2007/2023

From the collection of the Museum of Modern Art (MoMA), New York

For the whole duration of the exhibition, gallery attendants offer to the exhibition visitors marking their height on the gallery walls along with their first name and the date on which the measurement was taken.

Courtesy

Every afternoon - ROMAN ONDAK, TEACHING TO WALK, 2002/2023

Courtesy of the artist and Esther Schipper

A performance in which a mother accompanies her son as he takes his first steps in the gallery.

All Day - CHANGE THE NAME OF DAYS, DAVID HORVITZ, 2021/2023

Poster Edition of Artist Book published by Jean Boite Editions and Yvon Lambert

Eleven prompts to imagine the world differently pop up across the heart of Dhaka Art Summit, a selection from David Horvitz's artist book entitled Change the Name of Days, developed with the help of his then 5-year-old daughter. Each prompt provides DAS visitors with an opportunity to develop performative actions, from instructions such as "welcome the night into your house" to 'exchange breaths with a plant.' Choose your prompt and perform.

All Day - BELLY OF THE STRANGE, RUPALI GUPTE and PRASAD SHETTY, 2023

Commissioned by Dhaka Art Summit and Kiran Nadar Museum of Art

On the Summit's first floor, an immersive, dreamlike bamboo and wood structure looms above the ground on multiple legs, resembling a gaping mouth, a belly, a nest, or a piece of something. Come, inhabit, and perform in the Belly whenever you are passing by.

DAY ONE. FEB 3, FRIDAY

11am-12pm, 4:30-5:30pm - MIET WARLOP, CHANT FOR HOPE, 2022-2023

Commissioned by Samdani Art Foundation in partnership with KANAL - Centre Pompidou, Brussels with support from the Flemish Region of Belgium and EUNIC.
18

 Sheikh Majid Al Qasimi, Director of the Sharjah Department of Government Relations (DGR), reviewed with a delegation from Japan, led by Sekiguchi Noboru, Consul-General of Japan in the UAE, ways to bolster bilateral relations and collaboration across multiple domains.

The meeting took place at the headquarters of DGR in the presence of Toshihide Yasaka, Deputy Consul-General of Japan in the UAE, and a number of senior officials from the department.

Throughout the meeting, the delegates explored opportunities to deepen the historical ties between Sharjah and Japanese cities in the areas of economics, culture, and development.

l Qasimi emphasised the significant growth potential in the relationship between Japan and Sharjah, particularly in tourism, culture, education, and investment. He explained that the meeting served as a foundation for further discussions aimed at strengthening bilateral cooperation in a variety of fields.

The delegation from Japan was particularly interested in Sharjah's efforts to promote cultural initiatives through the establishment of the "World Cultural Centre," which serves as a hub for a range of international cultural institutes under one roof within the University City of Sharjah. The centre features institutions such as Alliance Francais, the British Council, the Korean King Sejong Institute, the Goethe-institut German Language Centre, and the Spanish Cervantes Institute.

In turn, the Japanese Consul-General highlighted the success of ongoing communication with various development agencies and sectors, with the goal of fostering cooperation in the cultural, economic, and investment realms. He suggested the appointment of a Japan Cultural attache in the World Cultural Centre to further strengthen cultural exchange and cooperation between the two sides. He also stressed the significance of joint cultural initiatives to foster friendship and cultural understanding and the activation of student exchange programmes between universities in Japan and Sharjah.

The DGR welcomed the proposed coordination of future meetings between development and cultural authorities in Sharjah and their Japanese counterparts, and expressed a commitment to prepare for a high-level delegation visit to Japan to share expertise and broaden the scope of collaboration in multiple domains.
19
An ongoing exhibition looks at the people behind the products and their love for the craft that creates them. ELENI PHILIPPOU finds out more

The life of a craftsman. Sometimes it's up, sometimes it's down. But what does it take to make something out of nothing? Wanting to explore this and highlight the varied stories of makers who live in Germany and Cyprus, Georgios N Paparoditis spent a year interviewing and photographing them to create an exhibition.

The Art of Making exhibition, on at Goethe-institut Cyprus until February 25, presents photographs and interviews of and with craftspeople in the two countries. It features eight artists in Germany and 12 in Cyprus, each photo accompanied by a text from the interview.

Half-German and half-Cypriot, Georgios is a photographer, carpenter and architect who recently moved back to the island after being heavily involved in Germany's craft community, and keen to explore the Cypriot one too. A year in the works, he travelled the island meeting craftspeople and now his exhibition offers a glimpse into what it means to making a living from your hands.

The exhibition features woodturners, flute makers, organ builders, chair weavers, ceramists and craftspeople of all sorts. "I wasn't trying to push some kind of diversity in craft," Georgios said. "I was mostly trying to get the most interesting and different stories that I could. I wanted lots of background stories and to show how many ways a life can lead into craft, for how many reasons people can choose this profession and what makes it special to each of them."

Each interviewee was asked the same four questions, which now are displayed alongside their photos at Goethe. They include the decision to practice the craft professionally, working conditions and what makes a material special for the maker. Asking the last question was important to Georgios to showcase the different personalities called to craft.

Georgios knows this too by experience, having practiced different professions. He started as an architect and during his degree encountered other more hands-on fields. He spent a semester with an architectural photographer and another with a furniture maker before working in architecture offices after graduation.

He got a part-time job as an architectural model maker and then as a furniture maker. "I realised that the fun part about the studies of architecture," he explained, "was the hands-on stuff for me, the drawing and the model making and the crafting. Very little of that happened in the offices that I worked in, and I worked in a few of them, and very little of that happens nowadays. It's mostly computer work or fighting around with either contractors or with clients."

Eventually, Georgios took the decision to switch to craft full time and undertook a degree in furniture making in Germany. Today he practices the craft professionally and still works as an architectural photographer. His outfit during our interview gave him away. Overalls and a sharpened pencil in the pocket are the classic attire for a furniture maker.

When he started The Art of Making in November 2021, Georgios did the interviews in Germany first, where he was well-acquainted with the local crafts community. In Cyprus, he knew few people but one person introduced him to another five and soon he had to cherry-pick the artists for the exhibition.

The differences between the two communities were clear from the start: support from the government and appreciation from the public which he didn't find to be the case in Cyprus. In Germany also there is also an active craftspeople community whereas as Georgios discovered in Cyprus craftspeople tend to walk alone. Yet some similarities arose too.

"The most common thread that I found is the love for the profession," said Georgios, "because no one of these people is crazy rich or is getting rich by what they're doing or either getting fame. They're not rock stars. So, the only thing crafts people get out of their job is the love for the profession."

The struggle to stay afloat and keep up with an industry that keeps technologically replacing their jobs was universal. "There is a difference between an industrially made table and a crafted table. I know this because I make it. And I know that it's true of ceramics and of anything, really. If you make it by hand, there's a difference to somebody knocking out the numbers and mass producing something. It takes time to make a pot, a table or a plate and the awareness of that is really gone, I think, because it's literally one click away for you to order the table."

To showcase the process of making something by hand, the exhibition also has a display of unfinished products that visitors can touch and explore.

The guided tours Georgios is holding offer a further look into the lives of the craft people, anecdotes from the interview process and a one-to-one with the artist. Two more remain before the exhibition ends, on February 10 at 6pm and February 25 at 11.30am, in either Greek, German or English depending on the group's needs. Later in 2023, the Art of Making will travel to Freiburg in Germany to continue its journey.

The Art of Making

Exhibition by Georgios N. Paparoditis including photographs and interviews of craftspeople in Germany and Cyprus. Until February 25. Goethe-institut Cyprus, Nicosia. Wednesday-Friday: 2pm-7pm, Saturday: 11.30am-2pm. Tours: February 10 (6pm), February 25 (11.30am). In English, Greek or German. Tel: 22-674606
20
The Indonesian Consulate General in Frankfurt, Acep Somantri, was present virtually at the MoU signing process. The scarcity of nurses in Germany is the main motivation for holding the two collaborations. The German Nurses Council projects that there will be 300 thousand vacant nurse positions in Germany by 2030.

Key Highlights:

* The Directorate General of Health Workers, Ministry of Health of the Republic of Indonesia has signed 2 Memorandums of Understanding .

* The German Nurses Council projects that there will be 300 thousand vacant nurse positions in Germany by 2030.

* The scarcity of the supply of health workers meant that it took 1 nurse vacancy to be filled .

Original Press Release:

Frankfurt, Germany, Jan. 31 -- Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Republic of Indonesia issued the following news release:

The Directorate General of Health Workers, Ministry of Health of the Republic of Indonesia has signed 2 (two) Memorandums of Understanding (MoU) which aim to develop the capacity of Indonesian nurses under the Health Polytechnic of the Ministry of Health (Poltekkes) network (30/01 ). The signing of the 2 MoUs was carried out on the sidelines of the 5th Pillar of Health HR Transformation Townhall event in a hybrid manner, in Jakarta and Frankfurt, Germany, on January 30 2023, and witnessed by the Indonesian Minister of Health, German Ambassador to Indonesia, Indonesian Consul General in Frankfurt, and representatives from the Indonesian Embassy in Berlin.

"The scarcity of nurses in Germany is the main motivation for holding the two collaborations. "On this basis, the Indonesian Consulate General in Frankfurt has initiated an assessment of capacity building cooperation with Eurosearch Consultants GmbH and the Goethe-institut which was then followed up during the working visit of the Director General of Health Workers, Ministry of Health of the Republic of Indonesia, to Frankfurt, Germany, in November 2022." conveyed by the Indonesian Consul General in Frankfurt, Acep Somantri, who was present virtually at the MoU signing process.

On this occasion, the Directorate General of Health Workers, the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Indonesia and the CEO of Eurosearch Consultants GmbH signed an MoU on Capacity Building and Preparation of Indonesian Health Professionals for the Purpose of Working in Germany. The MoU which is valid for 5 years will be the basis for cooperation between the two parties to provide German language training to nursing study program students at the Semarang Polytechnic of Health, Central Java.

Complementing the MoU above, the Directorate General of Health Workers, Ministry of Health of the Republic of Indonesia has also signed an MoU with the Director of Indonesia and the Regional Director for Southeast Asia/Australia/New Zealand, Goethe-institut, regarding a Pilot Project for German Language Integration in the International Class Curriculum of the Nursing Study Program at the Polytechnic Health Ministry of Health of the Republic of Indonesia. The MoU will integrate the German language program into the curriculum of the international class nursing study program at the Poltekkes and is valid for 4 years. The two MoUs are expected to become a pilot project for integrating German into the curriculum of the nursing study program at the Health Polytechnic of the Ministry of Health.

The German Nurses Council (Deutschen Pflegerat / DPR) projects that there will be 300 thousand vacant nurse positions in Germany by 2030. Based on the latest data from the German Labor Agency (Bundesagentur fÈ­r Arbeit / BA), the ratio between job seekers and the number of vacancies for nurse jobs in Germany is very high. low, namely 0.58. In the regional context, the 3 (three) states in the working area of the Indonesian Consulate General in Frankfurt even have a lower ratio than the German average, namely Bavaria (ratio 0.37); Saarland (ratio 0.45); and Baden-WÈ­rttemberg (ratio 0.46). The scarcity of the supply of health workers meant that it took 1 (one) nurse vacancy to be filled (vacancy duration). The average vacancy duration for the nursing profession in Germany is 184 days. This duration has worsened compared to the beginning of 2022 which reached 131 days.

"Providing the German language curriculum under the MoU between the Indonesian Ministry of Health and Eurosearch Consultants GmbH and the Goethe-institut can be an important capital for quality and competitive Indonesian nurses to be able to meet the needs of nurses in Germany in the future. The two programs also aim to support the Triple Win Program between BP2MI and (Bundesagentur fÈ­r Arbeit / BA) which was agreed on December 29 2020." continued the Indonesian Consul General in Frankfurt, Acep Somantri.

Disclaimer: The Above Content is Auto-Translated

Source: Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Republic of Indonesia

[Category: Partnerships and Alliances]
21
The Goethe-institut and the Namibia Scientific Society will be hosting a public talk by Stefan Bollmann on 1 February at 19:00 at the Namibia Scientific Society, titled 'The Breath of the World. Johann Wolfgang Goethe and the Experience of Nature'.

The Society in a statement released last week said that Bollmann in 'The Breath of the World. Johann Wolfgang Goethe and the Experience of Nature', takes the audience on a journey through Italy, Switzerland, and as far as the Harz Mountains, alongside the naturalist Goethe.

"Based on his observations of nature and anatomical examinations, Bollmann shows his audience what lessons and inspirations they can still draw today from Goethe's sensually vivid perceptions of nature," they added.

Stefam Bollmann was born in 1958 and studied literature, history, and philosophy before writing a Ph.D. thesis on Thomas Mann. In 1998 he gave up his job as a university lecturer to work in publishing and writing. With his best-selling, Women Who Read Are Dangerous and Women Who Read Are Dangerous and Clever he looked into how the culture of reading has changed.

Bollmann's books have been translated into sixteen languages, including English, and sold almost half a million copies.

Posted by Mandisa Rasmeni
22
Director of Goethe-institut Pune Miriam Bruns here on Saturday said whatever plans one may have for the future, knowledge of German will increase options. When one learns German one acquires a range of skills, which can improve the quality of both work and private life.

"Knowledge of German opens the door for a global career in terms of job opportunities with German and foreign companies in one's own country and abroad," said she.

She was speaking during the inaugural session of the three-day 'German Teachers' Conference' organised by Goethe-institut/Max Mueller Bhavan Pune and Mumbai and the Indian German Teachers' Association (InDaF) held Saturday at Geothe-Institut Pune.

The central theme of the conference is 'Handlungsorientierter DaF-Unterricht mit Kopf, Hand und Herz' (Learning German by doing: with head, hand and heart).

Julia HuBlein, Deputy Director and Head of Language Department of Goethe-institut Mumbai, Dr. Vibha Surana, Head Dept. of German, University of Mumbai and Puneet Kaur, President of InDaF were present along with 150 teachers from Maharashtra and Gujarat who attended the conference and workshops, which will conclude Sunday.

The highlight of the program on Saturday was a reading session by German author, Monica Cantieni who read an excerpt from her very first novel for youngsters.

"As the globally active cultural institution of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Goethe-institut contributes to establishing the German language in the educational systems of the guest countries.

We support over 100,000 schools worldwide in giving high-quality German tuition, and promote the advanced professional training and qualification of teachers of German," added Miriam.

Julia HuBlein said, "The three-day conference holds 18 interactive workshops along with a plenary session and a panel discussion on different topics related to 'Teaching by Doing', which gives teachers a chance to explore new ideas and strategies, network with their peers, and recharge their excitement for teaching."

Published by HT Digital Content Services with permission from United News of India.

Copyright © United News of India Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc. ( Syndigate.info ).
23
Contract notice: maintenance cleaning in the office building of the Goethe-institut headquarters

The maintenance cleaning includes the professional cleaning, care and surface treatment of the floors and floor coverings, the sanitary facilities and the objects of the room equipment, which are repeated according to defined standards and time intervalsmaintenance cleaning administration building with seminars. 7 floors are to be cleaned within the maintenance cleaning according to this service description. the room types in the building are divided into the following cleaning groups (rg): : toilet floor: shower/changing room: office corridor: entrance areaj: stairs: elevator: hallway stairwellz: cellar/storage/kitchen area cafeteria: no regular maintenance cleaningthe table in appendix a3 "room plan and cleaning area" is used to classify each cleaning group.

Major organization : Goethe-institut E.V. - ZENTRALE

Address : Oskar-von-Miller-Ring 18

Country :Germany

Email : murat.bursa@goethe.de

Url : www.goethe.de

Tender notice number : 047331-2023

Notice type : Tender Notice

Open date : 2023-03-09

Tender documents : T483648405.html
24

Alliance Francaise and the Goethe-institut jointly organized an event on Sunday to commemorate the 60th anniversary of the Elysee Treaty. The treaty set the roadmap for friendship and bilateral co-operation between France and Germany following the Second World War.Titled Of Philosophers & Kings, it featured a theatrical reading of letters exchanged between French philosopher Voltaire and Frederick II, the king of Prussia. The letters were translated into English and compiled into a script by Nandita Wagle from the department of foreign languages at Savitribai Phule University. Theatre personalities Aanand Chabukswar and Angad Patwardhan brought the mutual admiration, friendship and exchange of ideas as seen in the letters to life at the Goethe-institut on Boat Club Road. Chabukswar, who represented Voltaire, said the text and the translation were full of long-winded sentences as they were representative of the 17th century, the era that the king and the philosopher lived in. "Though I had read about Voltaire before, this performance gave me the opportunity to understand more deeply what the philosopher stood for, his reasoning, enlightenment and connection with the masses." Patwardhan returned to the stage after four years with his role as King Frederick II. "During rehearsals, I found out he was not only a ruler but also had many philosophical ideas and wanted to be mentored by Voltaire," he said.Anupam Barve, who directed the performance, said this project featuring letters that are over 300 years old was especially intriguing for him as he is a "big history buff". He added that the correspondence is still extremely relevant today. Amelie Weigel, director of Alliance Francaise, said, "With the central theme of friendship, we are committed to working with Goethe-institut and local artistic, educational and corporate sectors to fu- rther our common goals through collaborations between st- udents, academics, and professionals in India and Europe."
25
Consul General of France to Karachi Alexis Chahtahtinsky and Consul General of the Federal Republic of Germany Dr. Rdiger Lotz on Sunday celebrated the signing of 'Elysee Treaty' 60 years ago.

They termed it as a historic treaty of friendship.

The treaty on Franco-German cooperation was ratified at the Elysee Palace in Paris on January 22, 1963, 'After World War II, France reached out to its former enemy and treated Germany as a partner.' They said 60 years have been the happiest in our two countries history.

They said Germany and France have shown how two nations, formerly hostile to each other, can achieve unprecedented friendship and cooperation. This was neither easy nor natural.

'It requires a great deal of leadership and political wisdom on both sides', they added.

Today as Germany and France celebrate the 60th anniversary of the 1963 Elysee Treaty in a place where symbolically, the Alliance Francaise and the Goethe-institut have come together, under the same roof, to bring French and German language and culture closer to the people of Karachi.

France and Germany do believe that this friendship can serve as an example.
26
Four award-winning German films that premiered at the Berlinale 2022, as well as a film about Iran that premiered at the Berlinale 2019 will be presented in Nicosia as part of the Berlinale Selection 2023 organised by the Goethe-institut Cyprus. The films will be shown at Pantheon between January 27 and 29.

The Berlinale Selection series starts with Rabiye Kurnaz vs. George W. Bush -- the latest film by director Andreas Dresen, to whom the last Sommerkino film series of the Goethe-institut Cyprus was dedicated. This film adaptation of a true story is a deeply human drama about the lack of the rule of law. It tells how Rabiye, the mother of a long-time GuantÈínamo prisoner, tries to free her son from the US prison camp. For her energetic and humorous portrayal of Rabiye, the actress Meltem Kaptan received a Silver Bear for Best Acting Performance in a Leading Role. Screenwriter Laila Stieler also received a Silver Bear.

The Forger , screened on day two, is also based on a true story, the inspirational power of which the director and screenwriter Maggie Perren highlights and honours. It is the story of a young Jewish man, who uses his talent for forging documents as a way to help himself and others escape deportation. The film wants to rethink memory and also portray it. It shows the everyday life of the Holocaust on the streets of Berlin, where nobody wants to have known anything about it. This film is being screened to mark International Holocaust Remembrance Day on January 27.

Next up is Come With Me to the Cinema -- The Gregors , the life story of the married couple Erika and Ulrich Gregor. Alice Agneskirchner's documentary follows various paths to get right up close to the founders of Arsenal and the International Forum of New Cinema: on the one hand via the eventful life of the couple, who have been married for over 60 years; on the other via those who have accompanied them along the way, including such prominent figures as Jutta BrÈ­ckner, Wim Wenders and Jim Jarmusch. This is not only a film about love and cinema but also a piece of West German history.

The last day of screenings will begin with A E I O U -- A Quick Alphabet of Love , a German-French coproduction. At the centre of this film by director Nicolette Krebitz is the actress Anna, whose acting heyday is now behind her. Reluctantly, she accepts a job as a language coach for 17-year-old Adrian who has a speech impediment and is something of a misfit. The film humorously tells the story of an impossible love affair, handling the fragile balance between the dictates of society and the heart with great care. The fresh breath of freedom blows through a narrative that makes room for a nod to old West Berlin and some gentle teasing of Germany's French neighbours.

In Born in Evin , Maryam Zaree deals with decades of family silence and explores her own questions about the circumstances of her birth in one of the most notorious political prisons in the world. How did the trauma caused by persecution and violence infiltrate the bodies and souls of the survivors and their children? How do the victims personally deal with the fact that the same perpetrators go unpunished and are still in power today? What does it mean politically to face the silence within the family? An exciting quest that highlights how the private is political and the political is private.

This series of screenings is organised in collaboration with Pantheon and is supported by the Friends of Cinema Society. All films will be screened in their original language accompanied by English subtitles except for Rabiye Kurnaz vs. George W. Bush that will also include subtitles in Greek.

Berlinale Selection 2023

German film screenings. By Goethe-institut Cyprus. January 27-29. Pantheon Theatre, Nicosia. 8pm on day 1, 6pm and 8pm on days 2 and 3. Free. In German with English subtitles. Tel: 22-674606
27
 Consul General of France to Karachi Alexis Chahtahtinsky and Consul General of the Federal Republic of Germany Dr. Rdiger Lotz on Sunday celebrated the signing of 'Elysee Treaty' 60 years ago. They termed it as a historic treaty of friendship. The treaty on Franco-German cooperation was ratified at the Elysee Palace in Paris on January 22, 1963, 'After World War II, France reached out to its former enemy and treated Germany as a partner.' They said 60 years have been the happiest in our two countries history. They said Germany and France have shown how two nations, formerly hostile to each other, can achieve unprecedented friendship and cooperation. This was neither easy nor natural. 'It requires a great deal of leadership and political wisdom on both sides', they added. Today as Germany and France celebrate the 60th anniversary of the 1963 Elysee Treaty in a place where symbolically, the Alliance Francaise and the Goethe-institut have come together, under the same roof, to bring French and German language and culture closer to the people of Karachi. France and Germany do believe that this friendship can serve as an example.
28
Alliance Franaise and the Goethe-institut jointly organized an event on Sunday to commemorate the 60th anniversary of the Elyse Treaty. The treaty set the roadmap for friendship and bilateral cooperation between France and Germany following the Second World War. Titled Of Philosophers & Kings, it featured a theatrical reading of letters exchanged between French philosopher Voltaire and Frederick II, the king of Prussia. The letters were translated into English and compiled into a script by Nandita Wagle from the department of foreign languages at Savitribai Phule University. Theatre personalities Aanand Chabukswar and Angad Patwardhan brought the mutual admiration, friendship and exchange of ideas as seen in the letters to life at the Goethe-institut on Boat Club Road. Chabukswar, who represented Voltaire, said the text and the translation were full of long-winded sentences as they were representative of the 17th century, the era that the king and the philosopher lived in. ôThough I had read about Voltaire before, this performance gave me the opportunity to understand more deeply what the philosopher stood for, his reasoning, enlightenment and connection with the masses.ö Patwardhan returned to the stage after four years with his role as King Frederick II. ôDuring rehearsals, I found out he was not only a ruler but also had many philosophical ideas and wanted to be mentored by Voltaire,ö he said. Anupam Barve, who directed the performance, said this project featuring letters that are over 300 years old was especially intriguing for him as he is a ôbig history buffö. He added that the correspondence is still extremely relevant today. Amelie Weigel, director of Alliance Franaise, said, ôWith the central theme of friendship, we are committed to working with Goethe-institut and local artistic, educational and corporate sectors to further our common goals through collaborations between students, academics, and professionals in India and Europe.
29
The Goethe-institut e.v. plans to win framework contract partners for the provision of instruction (german as a foreign language) for adults in face-to-face courses at the Goethe-instituts in germany via the present call for tenders. a detailed description of the required service can be found in appendix a, "service description".Daf classroom courses at the Goethe-instituts in germany: product descriptioni. Formats: the range of face-to-face courses includes group courses with different formats in terms of: a) intensity: intensive courses (e.g. 25 teaching units per week) and extensive courses (e.g. 9 teaching units per week) b) duration from 1 week to several months; usually 2, 3 or 8 weeks c) teaching days on weekdays (including Saturday) number of teaching days per week: usually 5 days (monday to friday) or 2-3 days (e.g. monday/ wednesday/ friday) d) time of day of the lesson morning, afternoon or eveningii. Levels and course content-a1 to c2 according to the common european framework of reference for languages-course content according to curricula-general language courses and special courses for workDaf classroom courses at the Goethe-instituts in germany: product descriptioni. Formats: the range of face-to-face courses includes group courses with different formats in terms of: a) intensity: intensive courses (e.g. 25 teaching units per week) and extensive courses (e.g. 9 teaching units per week) b) duration from 1 week to several months; usually 2, 3 or 8 weeks c) teaching days on weekdays (including Saturday) number of teaching days per week: usually 5 days (monday to friday) or 2-3 days (e.g. monday/ wednesday/ friday) d) time of day of the lesson morning, afternoon or eveningii. Levels and course content-a1 to c2 according to the common european framework of reference for languages-course content according to curricula-general language courses and special courses for work

Major organization : Goethe-institut E.V. - ZENTRALE

Address : Oskar-von-Miller-Ring 18

Country :Germany

Email : ausschreibung@goethe.de

Url : www.goethe.de

Tender notice number : 032609-2023

Notice type : Tender Notice

Open date : 2023-02-14

Tender documents : T483360710.html

© 2022 Al Bawaba (Albawaba.com) Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc. ( Syndigate.info ).
30
Guest artists for this exhibit are photographer, Namafu Amutse and painter Candice Mouton. Each of these artists brings a fresh dimension to the collection of fine art shown at the Gallery. The launch and the exhibition are open to all, and entrance is free.

The two artists, who met at school, will present their artworks at the gallery's first exhibition of the year. The gallery is located at The Village Opera House, 18 Liliencron Street, Windhoek.

According to a press statement by the Gallery, they are both young, self-taught artists in the early stages of their creative careers. "While Amutse works predominantly in the digital realm, creating photographs and videos, Mouton is a painter and illustrator. Despite using very different mediums, the two artists share a similar impetus for their works on display in this show. In this exhibition, Amutse's photographs and Mouton's paintings portray intimate moments relating to childhood through portraiture," StArt Art Gallery said in a statement.

"By placing just two artists' works in proximity, we are presented with a dialogue that creates space for unique interpretations. In 2018 StArt Art Gallery curated a two-person exhibition at the Goethe-institut of Namibia showing sculptures by Ismael Shivute and Matheus Alfeus. The exhibition was titled 'Side by Side'. Four years later, in homage to the 2018 exhibition, that title has been revived for a new series of two-person shows," the statement continued.
31
A travelling photography exhibition and cross-media project begins its journey in Cyprus this week, putting the Mediterranean diet in the spotlight. Foodrint is a collaborative project, both in terms of organisation but also in terms of its artists. Five international photographers connect Cyprus, Greece, Italy, Spain, Portugal, Morocco and Croatia bring this age-old food tradition based on austerity, creativity, sharing and seasonality alive.

The exhibition is the result of a collaboration between the Bank of Cyprus Cultural Foundation, Anemon Productions and the Goethe-institut and happens in partnership with the Museum of Cycladic Art in Greece, the Fondazione Brescia Musei in Italy and the Cyprus Food Museum. Supported by the Creative Europe programme and the Cyprus National Commission for Unesco, Foodprint will run at the Bank of Cyprus Cultural Foundation from Thursday to February 24. After its Cyprus launch, it will continue its journey with exhibitions abroad.

The project and its exhibited photographs feature the significance of the Mediterranean diet in daily life. Recognised by Unesco as part of humanity's Intangible Heritage due to its unique set of qualities, the Mediterranean diet consists mostly of plant-based foods, such as vegetables, grains, nuts, legumes and fruits. Born out of poverty, it also provides solutions to some of the most critical problems facing the planet today, such as the loss of biodiversity, food waste and climate change.

The project's parallel activities, which include photography workshops, educational programmes, cooking events and culinary walks, explore why the Mediterranean diet has come to be celebrated as one of the world's richest, healthiest and most sustainable food cultures.

Five award-winning photographers travelled in Cyprus, Greece, Italy, Spain, Portugal, Morocco and Croatia, capturing dramatically contrasting images from isolated fishing villages to mountainous hamlets and modern culinary schools, while exploring diverse themes such as sustainability, identity, family, community, cooking, farming, health and creativity. Their images seek to inspire change and encourage viewers to connect with the region's past, which although marked by poverty and hunger, created the world's healthiest and most sustainable diets.

London-based photographer Elena Heatherwick travelled to the island of Crete to explore the themes of family and culinary heritage. Elena spent time with a family running a small tavern in a remote mountainous region. Three generations participate in the production of food products, such as cheese and vegetables, whilst also collecting seasonal wild plants from the mountains.

German photographer Johann Clausen visited Croatia, to capture the landscape on the eastern shore of the Adriatic Sea and visually explore one of the most essential ingredients of cooking and food preservation: salt. In Cyprus, Johann shot in a futuristic freight farm where vegetables are cultivated and protected by the island's extreme summer temperatures while in parallel, he created a series of portraits of fruits growing in an abandoned grove, revealing their beauty in a timeless and iconic way.

In Morocco, Greek photographer Myrto Papadopoulos photographed a community in the remote mountainous area of Taounate. Relying on a seasonal, plant-based diet -- as meat is too expensive to obtain -- they have an intimate relationship with their environment, embracing what is offered by their land.

Dutch photographer Chris de Bode travelled to Spain, to focus on the health benefits of the Mediterranean Diet, by photographing a team of scientists at the University of Navarra who carry out one of the world's leading studies on the benefits of the Mediterranean Diet called PREDIMED+. In Italy, Chris explored the themes of gastronomy, creativity and innovation through a series of portraits of culinary students in the city of Brescia.

Barcelona-based photographer Maria Contreras Coll visited the Portuguese island of Culatra to capture how the local community of shellfish pickers is affected by pollution, rising temperatures and overfishing and ultimately how their way of life both affects and is affected by the health of the sea.
32
Contract awarded: It service management achievements

Announcement: it service management services

Contractor name : WORLD WIDE WAN GMBH

Implementing agency : Goethe-institut e.V. - Zentrale

Oskar-von-Miller-Ring 18

Mnchen

80333

DE

gerd.bohla@goethe.de

www.goethe.de

Country :Germany
33
The Language Centre at the Translation and Interpreting Institute (TII), Hamad Bin Khalifa University (HBKU), has opened registration for its spring 2023 courses in 12 world languages, a statement said.

The language programmes available to adults, children, and youth are Arabic, Chinese (Mandarin), French, German (in partnership with the Goethe-institut Gulf Region), Italian, Portuguese, Spanish, and Turkish. Adults can additionally learn Japanese, English, Korean, and Russian.

The courses suit all levels of ability, ranging from beginner to intermediate, and advanced levels. Students with prior knowledge of a language are encouraged to take a placement test to determine the most appropriate level and course.

A communicative and student-focused approach gives trainees the opportunity to develop four in-demand skills - speaking, listening, reading, and writing. TII's qualified, experienced language professionals use up-to-date methodologies, course-driven methods, and new technologies to offer an immersive, engaging classroom experience alongside a fascinating introduction to the culture. This approach furthers the centre's mission to enable trainees to acquire a language in its cultural context.

Announcing the registration, Dr Ameena Hussain, director of the Language Centre at TII, said: 'Being multilingual is an invaluable skill in today's increasingly globalised world. Taking up a new language can be important for professional and academic success, but can also enhance practical, meaningful communication in multicultural work and social settings. All of our trainees have a different intent, and at TII we believe that lifelong learning adds endless opportunities for personal enrichment and we encourage everyone in the community to begin the new year by pursuing the language that interests them the most.'

The Language Centre offers a variety of course formats, beginning on January 14 for children and youth, and on January 15 for adults. Classes will be held at Penrose House in Education City and online. Early-bird registration with discounted rates is open until January 10, and registration closes on January 14.
34
Consul General of the German Consulate in Karachi Dr Rdiger Lotz and Commissioner Karachi Muhammad Iqbal Memon, during a meeting here on Friday, discussed a wide range of opportunities to enhance cultural and academic exchanges between the two countries, emphasizing expanding and strengthening the long-running partnership.

They also agreed to declare Karachi and a German city 'sister cities' and discussed projects that could be launched for the improvement of these cities. Commissioner hoped it would help both the cities to explore opportunities for cultural and educational exchanges.

German Consul General said not only was Karachi the economic center of Pakistan but a vibrant, bustling metropolis full of culture, diversity, and dynamism. He expressed interest in helping the city become more sustainable by providing civic amenities.

Dr Rdiger Lotz also briefed the Commissioner about the Pakistan-German Climate and Energy initiative and how it will help Pakistan combat the adverse impact of climate change.

The Commissioner appreciated the role of Goethe-institut Pakistan in the field of research, education, and culture. "The Goethe-institut in Karachi has played a pivotal role in harnessing cultural relations between the two countries through its programmes and language courses."

Iqbal Memon said Germany is one of the most popular destinations for young Pakistani researchers wishing to pursue higher education. The Commissioner wished that further opportunities would be explored to provide research and higher education to the Karachiites.
35
 Consul General of the German Consulate in Karachi Dr Rdiger Lotz and Commissioner Karachi Muhammad Iqbal Memon, during a meeting here on Friday, discussed a wide range of opportunities to enhance cultural and academic exchanges between the two countries, emphasizing expanding and strengthening the long-running partnership. They also agreed to declare Karachi and a German city 'sister cities' and discussed projects that could be launched for the improvement of these cities. Commissioner hoped it would help both the cities to explore opportunities for cultural and educational exchanges. German Consul General said not only was Karachi the economic center of Pakistan but a vibrant, bustling metropolis full of culture, diversity, and dynamism. He expressed interest in helping the city become more sustainable by providing civic amenities. Dr Rdiger Lotz also briefed the Commissioner about the Pakistan-German Climate and Energy initiative and how it will help Pakistan combat the adverse impact of climate change. The Commissioner appreciated the role of Goethe-institut Pakistan in the field of research, education, and culture. 'The Goethe-institut in Karachi has played a pivotal role in harnessing cultural relations between the two countries through its programmes and language courses.' Iqbal Memon said Germany is one of the most popular destinations for young Pakistani researchers wishing to pursue higher education. The Commissioner wished that further opportunities would be explored to provide research and higher education to the Karachiites.
36
The Museum of Modern and Contemporary Art Sri Lanka (MMCA Sri Lanka) on Thursday opened the Rotation 3 of its exhibition titled 'Encounters'. The public can view the exhibition until 19 March 2023, at the museum premises inside Crescat Boulevard, Colombo 03.

Curated by MMCA Sri Lanka Chief Curator Sharmini Pereira and Curator Sandev Handy, 'Encounters' Rotation 3 introduces two new displays with artworks by A. Mark (1933-2000), George Keyt (1901-1993), Nelun Harasgama (b. 1959), and Janani Cooray (b. 1974). With a focus on clothing, one of the new displays looks at how garments, beyond their functionality, can convey information about class, professional status, gender, and nationality.

The display brings together a startling juxtaposition between a painting titled 'Kandyan Bride' (1951) by George Keyt and a barbed wire costume worn as part of a performance titled 'Osariya' (2015) by performance artist Janani Cooray. Both works highlight the historical relationships between clothing and social identity, inviting audiences to compare and contrast the different ways in which the Kandyan sari or 'osariya' is viewed in Sri Lanka.

'My hope is that this display aids us in re-considering George Keyt and the political reverberations embedded in his paintings; particularly in his depiction of women. As recently seen by the public outcry on the clothing standards required of female State employees, this encounter may lead us to not only re-consider Keyt but to further question the role clothing itself has played in crafting a national identity,' says Handy. The second new display is also prompted by a George Keyt painting but turns attention to a topic of a spiritual nature. Here, George Keyt's 1949 painting titled 'The Offering' is placed in a conversation with three artworks that explore representations of the crucifixion. This display includes works by Nelun Harasgama and A. Mark, with the addition of another George Keyt who also painted the subject of the crucifixion.

MMCA Sri Lanka Chief Curator Sharmini Pereira said: 'Showing George Keyt's 'The Offering' alongside crucifixion-based works by two contemporary artists are exactly the kinds of provocations between artworks we wanted to create in 'Encounters'.

'As the first exhibition in Sri Lanka to publicly exhibit individual paintings by George Keyt, 'Encounters' begins the task of dismantling outdated art history or 'connoisseurship' that has not addressed his actual artworks. We hope our approach will encourage a more critically engaged discussion about Keyt and other artists of his generation.'

A new lineup of free public programs accompanies Rotation 3 of 'Encounters' to engage the public with the artworks on display. These include weekly gallery talks with artists, workshops with professionals and exhibition tours with the museum's curators and visitor educators.

'Encounters' is generously supported by the European Union and the Goethe-institut, with the additional support of Fairfirst Insurance and Nilu's Construction and Engineering. The radio partners for 'Encounters' are Lite 87, Rhythm World and TNL Now.
37
BU DHABI, 15th December, 2022 (WAM) -- The Germany-UAE strategic partnership is complemented by people-to-people contact that help build lasting friendship between the two countries, a top German diplomat told the Emirates News Agency (WAM).

"During the visit of German Chancellor Olaf Scholz in September this year, he discussed with President His Highness Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the ways to revitalise, rejuvenate, and modernise the Germany-UAE strategic partnership agreement signed in 2004, which is the backbone of our bilateral relations," said the new German Ambassador to the UAE, Alexander Schalnfelder.

50th anniversary of ties

In an exclusive interview with WAM at the German Embassy in Abu Dhabi, he added that in the framework of the strategic partnership agreement, both countries have just agreed to form a climate partnership, "which also incorporates, of course, that Germany will spare no effort to make the COP 28 [the UN climate conference] in the UAE next year a huge success."

ermany-UAE relations are very deep and long-lasting, the envoy emphasised. "We just celebrated 50 years of German-Emirati relations, and we are, of course, constantly working on the expansion of our relations."

bout the future of relations, the ambassador asserted that, "The UAE is a forward-looking country, and it offers various opportunities for German companies. Germany and the UAE will continue to work together in building resilience in the areas of renewable energy, technology, digitisation, artificial intelligence, robotics and more."

People-to-people ties, tourism

In addition to that, Schalnfelder stressed, the people-to-people contact is incredibly important for the work of German diplomatic missions in the UAE.

The three German schools in the UAE in Abu Dhabi, Dubai, and Sharjah are great examples of the platforms that bring Germans and Emiratis together.

"German kids meet Emirati kids on a daily basis. And I think this is exactly how cultures combine and grow together and build lasting friendships between our two countries. These personal relationships are crucial [for bilateral ties] and this is exactly what we try to foster," said Schalnfelder who recently took charge as the envoy.

"We have to create even stronger links between our people and of course tourism is one aspect of that."

The UAE's hosting of the Expo 2020 Dubai underscored that the UAE is a very modern and dynamic country, the ambassador emphasised.

Therefore, there is an increasing number of German tourists coming to the UAE, he said, adding that many UAE visitors are going to Germany as well.

UAE as regional cultural hub

The UAE is redefining itself as an important culture hub in the region, Schalnfelder affirmed.

"So, this is a very important thing for our future cooperation in that area. We would like to see this extended to tertiary education."

He suggested that Germany has a lot to offer in the field of university education and has an outstanding system of vocational training that many German companies are already offering.

The UAE is developing a museum landscape at a very fast pace, the diplomat pointed out. "Germany is already actively supporting this development through a museum educational programme for young museum professionals in Arab countries."

The ambassador was referring to SAWA (Arabic for together), a joint initiative of the Sharjah Museums Authority, the Staatliche Museen zu Berlin and the Goethe-institut Gulf Region, together with the University of Applied Sciences Berlin (HTW), aimed at students of Museum Studies and museum professionals from the MENA region and Germany.

erman museum in UAE?

Based on this fruitful cooperation in the museum educational programme, Schalnfelder said, "I am waiting to see a branch of a German museum opening in the UAE. I think this is also something that, maybe, Germany could look into."

His dream is inspired by Louvre Abu Dhabi, the globally celebrated universal museum established by a joint initiative of the UAE and France.

Schalnfelder, who assumed the post of German envoy three months ago, is impressed by the fact that the UAE's policy of tolerance is put into action in everyday life. "We can see it in the Abraham Accords, which Germany supports very strongly."

He added, "the UAE is a very dynamic, young country, and it is going into the future with big steps and long strides."
38
A one-of-a-kind festival dedicated to the exploration of gender through art, Gender Bender by the Sandbox Collective is back as a physical event after two years. A joint venture with Goethe-institut, the eighth edition of the festival celebrates all things gender with a multitude of events; from theatre, storytelling, dance, music, and talks, to installations, workshops, photography, podcasts, paintings, and more.The festival, which will end on Sunday, is being held at Bangalore International Centre. It also showcases the works of the ten artists who have received the Gender Bender grant this year."We put out a call every year, asking people to send an artistic idea using which they want to talk about gender. Every year, we receive about 150-200 applications out of which we select 10-15. We have an independent jury cutting across gender, sexuality, location, caste, class, etc, for the selection process," shares Nimi Ravindran, the co-founder.Freedom to failOver the last eight years, about 90 artists have been awarded the Gender Bender grant to create works that shed light on all things gender. This year, along with eight artists from various locations and backgrounds from across India, they also have two international grantees-- a visual artist from Bangladesh and a drag artist from the Philippines.The grantees are given a certain amount to experiment with their idea. Nimi adds, "Not all work we do goes on to become great. Some fail and that's part of the artistic journey. But unless we have an opportunity to try, we won't know the potential. This grant gives people that opportunity." A few highlights of the festival include a rap artist who is performing in Dakhini, a sound installation, and a performance by a drag artist from the Philippines, among others.A space without judgment We ask Nimi if she has noticed a change in people's understanding of gender over the years that the festival has happened. She offers, "Measuring the impact when it comes to art is difficult. When you are exposed to an art form, what it does to you, to your household, and how it changes someone isn't quantifiable. But as artists, we believe that art has the power to change the world. We have felt it, that's why are working here"However, it's important to have spaces such as these. She further notes, "Spaces like these are shrinking in our country. Platforms where we can say whatever we want, think, and freely discuss topics, whether it's gender or anything else. In this case, it's interesting to see how we can use art to talk about gender, which is a difficult conversation. But we also feel that gender is about celebration. Each of us is unique. We should be able to see it. We need a world where we love and respect everyone and celebrate our differences."
39
"Moodh'Up, alternative exhibition" is the second edition of a group exhibition organised by the Goethe-institut Tunis and the Pontalent association as part of the "Moodha Okhra" support programme.

This edition, supported by the Canadian Embassy, INDIGO Foundation, AIMDM, Agaruw, Eco'Lav and The Green Box, will be held on December 11-17 and will present a selection of Tunisian fashion designers around a common theme: Fashion upcycling.

This edition will showcase the collection of five young Tunisian designers, namely: Zeineb Ali, Faten Gharbi, Hedi Ben Mami, Youssef Oueslati and Jihen Mzoughi.

These five designers took part in the six-month support programme Moodh'up» which aims to develop and improve technical, design and marketing skills, in order to create a ready-to-wear collection. It is an eco-responsible approach, which consists of reusing waste clothing, fabrics or unsold items to transform it into a product of superior value.

"Moodha Okhra» or Alternative Fashion» is an educational project in Tunisia which aims to raise awareness about sustainable fashion dedicated to future activists who would likely to trigger a sustainable and responsible fashion movement in Tunisia.
40

Celebrate literature this December at Goethe-institut/Max Mueller Bhavan with sessions of reading, fantasy, games and stories.The events begin on December 8 with a panel discussion on "Not So Faraway: On how writers perceive and occupy the other, in order to write their stories."Panel members are Christopher Kl÷ble - German novelist, playwright and scriptwriter; Jeyamohan - Tamil Writer and literary critic; and Priyamvada Ramkumar - private equity investor and literary translator. The event is moderated by Katharina G÷rgen, Director, Goethe-institut Chennai from 6pm to 7.30pmThe other events are as follows:Friday, December 9, 5- 6.30pm'Thabaal' - Let's have fun making postcards!Make personalized postcards and send them to loved ones. Event open to all above five yearsSaturday, December 10, 10am - 6pm'Accio Potter Fans'A call to all Harry Potter fans to revisit their fantasy world through an array of charming activities and an opportunity to play our Triwizard Tournament and win exciting prizes.December 13 and 14, 4pm-6pm'Into the fantasy world'Travel through the books to the fantasy world and explore for yourself the joy of reading. A game-based workshop for all age groups.Also open till December 17 on all library working days are Flohmarkt - Sale of books, newspapers, magazines and DaF materials. Nimm eins, Gib ins: Take one, Give one book exchange program.No Registrations are required. Events are free of cost and open to all!www.goethe.de
41
Body movement workshop, film screening and a lecture on traditional stone mill songs at Critical Zones exhibition at Zapurza organized by Goethe-institut Max Mueller Bhavan.Critical Zones exhibition organised by the Goethe-institut Max Mueller Bhavan Pune in collaboration with the Zapurza Museum of Arts & Culture Pune has invites visitors to engage with the critical situation of the Earth in a novel and diverse way and to explore new modes of coexistence between all forms of life. As a part of this initiative, multiple programs are taking place this weekend. All the programs are free of cost for the participants. Only the museum entry fee of Zapurza Museum of Art and Culture is payable. All programs are happening at Zapurza.Inner Scapes, a body movement workshop by Somya Kautia and Gia. The workshop will help you explore ways of embodiment and inhabiting ourselves through sensation, touch, gravity and movement. A collective collaboration of humans and trees, language and poetry, movement and histories, this workshop offers a unique opportunity to explore these connections. All those who have curiosity for performance and movement can participate. Only 18 persons can be accommodated for this workshop.
42
"Moodh'Up, alternative exhibition" is the second edition of a group exhibition organised by the Goethe-institut Tunis and the Pontalent association as part of the "Moodha Okhra" support programme.

This edition, supported by the Canadian Embassy, INDIGO Foundation, AIMDM, Agaruw, Eco'Lav and The Green Box, will be held on December 11-17 and will present a selection of Tunisian fashion designers around a common theme: Fashion upcycling.

This edition will showcase the collection of five young Tunisian designers, namely: Zeineb Ali, Faten Gharbi, Hedi Ben Mami, Youssef Oueslati and Jihen Mzoughi.

These five designers took part in the six-month support programme A which aims to develop and improve technical, design and marketing skills, in order to create a ready-to-wear collection. It is an eco-responsible approach, which consists of reusing waste clothing, fabrics or unsold items to transform it into a product of superior value.

"Moodha OkhraA>> or A is an educational project in Tunisia which aims to raise awareness about sustainable fashion dedicated to future activists who would likely to trigger a sustainable and responsible fashion movement in Tunisia.
43
A new exhibition presented by the Goethe-institut Cyprus this month puts craftwork in the spotlight. In the Art of Making exhibition, Georgios N. Paparoditis presents eight craftspeople from Germany and twelve from Cyprus through a series of photographs and interviews, open to the public from December 2022 to February 2023.

"The surplus of industrial products and their immediate availability," say the exhibition organisers, "contributes towards the people and work processes behind the things we use in our everyday lives being forgotten. This exhibition aims to bring these to our mind and show the beauty, as well as the challenges of working in the crafts."

Opening on Thursday, December 8, the exhibition includes a series of photographs and texts by Paparoditis on the craftspeople: Osman Altunoý-lu, Benjamin Auer, Behice SÈµnmez Biran, Mehmet M. Èçoban, Demetris Constantinou, Martin Feser, Fabian Fischer, Yena HacýÊ-evki, Genny Mparmpa, Achim Neub, Tahsin Èûzler, Souzana Petri, Dirk Schinker, Sotiris Sevastides, Simos Simakis, Tillmann SpÈñth, Norihiko Tsukinowa, Tatiana Vasilyeva, Mahmut Yaý-mur and Jochen Zimmermann.

Half Cypriot and half German, Paparoditis is an architect, carpenter and photographer. The subject of craft fascinates him and through this project he wanted to capture the passion and dedication that describes craftspeople. Paparoditis visited, photographed and interviewed carpenters, metal workers, potters, wood turners, saddlers, organ builders, tailors and other craftspeople in Germany and Cyprus over a period of seven months. His photographs and texts show the working methods, workshops and stories of craftspeople.

Paparoditis will also lead five guided tours throughout the duration of the showcase. The first one is on December 10 at 12.30pm, then on January 18 at 6pm, January 28 at 11.30am, February 10 at 6pm and finally on February 25 at 11.30am.

The Art of Making

Exhibition by Georgios N. Paparoditis including photographs and interviews of craftspeople in Germany and Cyprus. December 8-February 25. Goethe-institut Cyprus, Nicosia. Opening night: 7.30pm. Wednesday-Friday: 2pm-7pm, Saturday: 11.30am-2pm. Tel: 22-674606
44
Post-pandemic, B-Floor Theatre remains prolific in collaborations and creations-their members can deliver dialogues too

Before the pandemic, B-Floor Theatre had been known -both locally and internationally- as Thailand's premier physical theatre company. Winners of IATC Thailand Dance and Theatre awards, their movement-based productions have voiced, silently yet powerfully, social and political commentaries. The same can be said for their international collaborations like that with Japan's Hanchu-Yuei in 'Girl X' and South Korea's Theatre Momggol in a trilogy of 'Something Missing.'

From collaborations to creations

However, two recent international collaborations, developed during the pandemic and mainly supported by foreign funds, have proved that members of B-Floor are also deft in handling dialogues in both Thai and English-namely, 'A Thai Mirror' and 'I Don't Care.'

From collaborations to creations

As part of Bangkok Theatre Festival 2022, 'A Thai Mirror' (in Thai title, 'Krachok Thai') was B-Floor's collaboration with France's Compagnie franchement, tu, with support from Institut Francaise, Region Hauts-de-France and French Embassy in Thailand. Two performances, by-invitation-only, at Thammasat Playhouse on Rangsit campus were followed by three public performances at Alliance Francaise Bangkok auditorium last weekend.

From collaborations to creations

French playwright and director Nicolas Kerszenbaum's compelling 'political thriller' first tells how a French woman visits her brother and his Thai fiancee in Kanchanaburi and finds them missing and then flashes back one year prior to the Northeastern historic French town Besancon where the romantic and political relationships took shape.

The two French actors Marion Bottolier and Ulysse Bosshard and the two Thai ones Sarut Komalittipong and Wasu Wanrayangkoon worked well altogether as they spoke naturally in colloquial French, Thai and English. On an almost bare stage, they made it the scenes in France and Thailand credible and told the story clearly.

From collaborations to creations

The music and sound design collaboration of Sarah Metais-Chastanier and Warong Boonaree was another highlight as their work not only created the corresponding atmosphere and stirred the audience's imagination but also told many stories. Watching them perform different instruments, both traditional and electronic, on stage right was a delight as both became another two actors in this work.

From collaborations to creations

A few slight letdowns are that disappearance of political activists is one of the most frequently used storylines by Thai theatre artists since the last coup d'etat. Some audiences might also feel, after watching this work, that this is yet another reaffirmation of the French government's assistance for Thai political activists who fight for 'democracy'.

From collaborations to creations

Two months earlier, B-Floor's collaboration with Munich's Residenztheater 'I Don't Care' (in Thai title, 'Mai wa yang rai'), billed as a docufiction by writer and critic Jurgen Berger and funded by Goethe-institut Thailand, had its world premiere at Jim Thompson Art Center.

From collaborations to creations

Based on Berger's interviews with transgender people in Thailand and Germany between 2017 and 2022, the work was filled with vast amount of information but never felt like an information overload thanks to the co-directors B-Floor's co-artistic director Jarunun 'Ja' Phantachat and Anna-Elisabeth Frick. As the German director's works range from spoken drama to dance and music, it's a good match with Ja to begin with.

Setting the performance area in traverse configuration with two sides of the audience facing each other, they asked us to look not only the performers and their stage actions but also how they're related to other audience members or representatives of the society. The work then relied on presentational modes, frequently like that of a game show, to engage the audience effectively and then discuss issues about transgender people openly and directly.

From collaborations to creations

Interestingly, the tone was considerably light-hearted throughout the performance although the issues discussed were not, like the legal process involved in one's change from one gender to another in Germany and the fact that Thailand is still far behind the rest of the world when it comes to inclusivity. Credit was due in part to a tightly knitted ensemble comprising German performer and member of Residenztheater ensemble Mareike Beykirch and her Thai counterparts Sarut and Pathavee Thepkraiwan who's having a ball in this work. Shifting back and forth effortlessly among Thai, German and English languages as the audience occasionally read the translation surtitles, the trio was like storytellers, performers, entertainers, moderators and discussants all at once.

In October, 'I Don't Care' had a two-week run in the Bavarian capital and I'm sure it will continue elsewhere soon. In the program it's noted that 'both Bangkok and Munich are home to an unusually large number of specialists in sex reassignment surgery.' Lastly, theatregoers may recall that Berger was an initiator of the 2016 Thailand-Germany physical theatre collaboration on interracial relationship 'Happy Hunting Ground' by Democrazy Theatre Studio and Badisches Staatstheater Karlsruhe. To put it differently, this cultural relationship has sustained and it's important that Thailand's cultural bodies start taking a look at it and lending support.

From collaborations to creations

This month, B-Floor is back at Bangkok Art and Culture Centre's 4th floor Studio, with fewer dialogues and more physical movement, as they will close out BACC's Performative Art Project (PAP) with 'Cloud State' featuring two works.

From today (December 2) to Sunday, 7pm, and December 7 to 11, veteran actress and dance movement psychotherapist Dujdao 'Dao' Vadhanapakorn's 'Paranoid - Schizoid', an experiential performance in which she explores, as the title suggests, 'a state of infants who cannot process the fact that a person can consist of both good and bad' and, as B-Floor always does, how this relates to the contemporary Thai society. Sharing the stage with Dao are two recipients of Silpathorn Award and B-Floor's co-artistic directors themselves, 'Ja' and Teerawat 'Ka-ge' Mulvilai, in addition to another seasoned thespian Ornanong 'Golf' Thaisriwong. Dao notes, 'This performance aims to use the psychological state merely as an inspiration for her art; it's not meant to be a scientific study to prove any clinical facts.'

The following weekend (December 15 to 18) at the same venue, the newly graduated Thammasat University theatre class of 2022, who have studied with B-Floor members, will restage their senior project work 'It's Just a Fiction (Not Mentioning Anything)', described as 'a story of a society oppressing its people with a so-called 'education'.' Rumor is that Thailand's most prolific complainer Srisuwan Janya may book a ticket.
45
After a pandemic-induced hiatus, Global Guitar Gita returns to the Garden City on December 2,3 and 4, featuring the who's who of the strumming worldConcert series Global Guitar Gita's legacy of 22 years gets a fillip as it returns with renowned masters of guitar from around the world. Touted to be among the world's largest platforms celebrating the stringed instrument, it is hosted by legendary Bengaluru guitarist, Konarak Reddy, and supported by the Goethe-institut (Max Mueller Bhavan) for the past 10 years. This year's festival line-up has impressive names - Antoine Boyer, Julia Lange, Samuelito, and Yeore Kim.Through the years, the concert series has brought down legends like Peter Finger from Germany, Don Ross from Canada, Adam Tvrdy from the Czech Republic, and Claus Boesser-Ferrari from Germany. Now back after a two-year lull, music lovers can revel in the riffs by these leading guitarists.Host, and music maestro Konarak is not new to acclaim, be it in India or Europe. The legend is known for his eclectic blend of Hindustani and Carnatic musical genres, and his famed finger-style guitar.His knowledge of the sarod allows him to play the guitar using the contentious pulling method, and produce stunning alaaps. For more than 25 years, Reddy has shared the stage alongside famous European fingerstyle guitarists such as Peter Finger, Claus Boesser-Ferrari, Bob Bonastre, Sandor Szabo, Jacques Stotzem, and Dylan Fowler. "My family is a big fan of Indian culture,"Antoine BoyerJazz guitarist Antoine Boyer started learning the guitar with his father at just six years of age. "He put the idea forward, and I said yes. We started playing together as a duet soon," says Boyer from his home in France, a day ahead of his flight to India. Since then, his journey with the strings has taken admirable turns, even learning from masters like Mandino Reinhardt and Francis Alfred Moerman. After he launched his third CD, Sita, Boyer was chosen as Revelation 2012 by Guitarist Acoustic, inadvertently becoming the first gypsy jazz guitarist to receive the coveted award. Excited about playing in India, as the country and culture is often a big topic of discussion at home, he pipes, "My father loves Indian culture. He has read the Mahabharata and Ramayana at least thrice." Intrigued by how Indian guitarists have managed to blend western fingerstyle playing with desi music, he says, "I am looking forward to exploring it all."At Guitar Gita, he will play alongside his long-term associate Samuelito, a master of flamenco, and his wife Yeore Kim, a harmonica player, who has been touring since her teenage years in the Korean jazz scene. Samuelito, who started learning guitar at six, is an alumnus of the Caen Conservatory. He has been playing flamenco guitar since he was eight, studying under great maestros like Paco de Lucia and Sabicas.Yeore and Antoine met at a music festival in Taiwan. A multi-instrumentalist, who also plays the trumpet, drums, cello, and piano, Yeore has a master's from the Seoul Music University, and has won competitions like the Asia Pacific Harmonica Festival, the Seoul Harmonica Festival, and the World Harmonica Festival. "I am just following my instincts when it comes to music," Julia LangeThe 24-year-old Julia Lange is a guitar prodigy whose versatility amazes. She started guitar at eight, and it was quite a serendipitous initiation, "My older brother was playing guitar, so there was already an instrument at home. Incidentally, he had no interest in it. One day, I asked him if I could have it, and he was more than happy to give it away." Till she was 16, she trained and perfected classical guitar. Then destiny came calling. "More like YouTube changed," she adds. Listening to artists like Tommy Emmanuel and Andy McKee, was a paradigm shift for her. "I saw their kind of percussive playing, which was different from what I was used to, and so interesting. They were writing their own tunes, making their own music. I was hooked," she says. Fortuitously, Julia quit classical guitar and started experimenting. "Many people told me it was a bad idea as I was so good at classical guitar. But I thought if I don't try, I'll never know," she says. Now, as part of the Funky Times, with Julius Imhuser and Leo Imhuser, the trio makes quite a team. "We met at a concert, and the host put an idea in our heads to form a band," she says. Unafraid to experiment and expand, every arena is a new opportunity for Julia. It is what she expects from Guitar Gita too. "Anything can happen," she says, glad the festival is happening after two long arduous years.
46
The Goethe-institut e.v. plans to award a framework contract with four (4) framework contract partners for services in the area of evaluation. a detailed description of the required service can be found in Appendix A "Service Description".The staff department strategy and evaluation of the headquarters of the Goethe-institut e.v. in munich we are looking for four committed external service providers as framework contract partners who work on various evaluation projects. As part of these projects, the client commissions the contractor with services in the area of consulting and further development of evaluation concepts and concepts of impact-oriented monitoring and their implementation, which include all steps: from the conception and implementation to data analysis and the writing of a final evaluation report . the commissioning of the contractor and the individual services is carried out separately and project-related.

Major organization : Goethe-institut E.V. - ZENTRALE

Address : Hhnerposten 1, 20097 Hamburg, Germany

Country :Germany

Email : lena.peichl@goethe.de

Url : www.goethe.de

Tender notice number : 658997-2022

Notice type : Tender Notice

Open date : 2023-01-20

Tender documents : T481314359.html

© 2022 Al Bawaba (Albawaba.com) Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc. ( Syndigate.info ).
47
Pune: The Goethe-institut/ Max Mueller Bhavan, Pune, has organised an extensive month-long programme, comprising workshops, field trips, discussions, camps and film screenings, to address the crisis of climate change both in the global as well as the Indian context. It commenced with an interactive exhibition titled 'Critical Zones: In Search of a Common Ground' in collaboration with the ZKM Centre for Art and Media in Karlsruhe, Germany. The event will be held at the Zapurza Museum of Arts & Culture in Kudje village till December 18. Remu Jamgaonkar, the cultural co-ordinator at the Max Mueller Bhavan, said the exhi- bition will feature multimedia artworks created by artists in Karlsruhe, which is a sister city of Pune, photographs, archival documents about critical zones and various studies. ôThe impact of this exhibition is, as with any exhibition or experimental thought, not to be determined completely, but evolving with the time it lasts,ö said Mira Hirtz from ZKM Centre for Art and Media. ôThe exhibition aims at offering a space for discussion and reflection about our position as humankind towards the planet, questioning our ways of inhabiting Earth and learning new ways of co-existence with all forms of life. In the midst of the ecological crisis, the exhibition wants to enable the audience to situate themselves in their own critical zone: to make each of us see our own network of life that we depend on.ö Jamgaonkar added: ôWe will also conduct events in collaboration with city-based institutes and professionals working on various facets of environment preservation, such as permaculture and reducing carbon footprint.
48
New Stages Southeast is a project of the Goethe-instituts in the region of Southeast Europe, which is about promoting current and relevant social issues via contemporary theatre. The participating countries are Bosnia-Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Greece, Croatia, Romania, Serbia and Cyprus and this November 27 at 5pm, Nicosia's Goethe centre will present works by Cypriot authors, in English and Greek.

After more than a year since the beginning of New Stages Southeast, the participants are ready to present the results of the project in Cyprus through the staging of excerpts from the works of the participating Cypriot authors. These works were created through workshops with playwrights from all over Southeast Europe and Cyprus that were led by the awarded German writer Ulrike Syha and took place at the Goethe-institut in Nicosia in September 2021 and March 2022.

The event will include scratch performances based on texts by Maria Iole Karaolidou, Marios Konstantinou, Maria Kyriakou, Melina Papageorgiou, Aliye Ummanel, and the late Achim Wieland, directed by Athina Kasiou and moderated by Ulrike Syha.

New Stages Southeast

Presentation of works by Cypriot authors. November 27. Goethe-institut Cyprus, Nicosia. 5pm. Free. Tel: 22-674606
49
Dance Waves Festival, a contemporary dance event held for 13 years by Dance Lab, returns this weekend for two days of performances by artists from Cyprus and abroad. Eight performances will take place at the Egomio Cultural Centre starting on Saturday.

Opening the 2022 edition of the festival is a performance by Olivia Court Mesa from Israel titled I Carry, You Hold . Then Spanish dancer Arnau Perez will present Single , a piece that was awarded first prize at the Internationales Solo Tanz Theatr Stuttgart 2021. Then two local productions will conclude the first evening with Milena Ugren Koulas' The Magical Other and Nicole Yiannaka's I Am .

The second and final day of Dance Waves begins with Part A at 5.30pm on Sunday with performances for a young audience but also whoever feels young to get inspired. Zoe Giorgalli will present her piece titled Choro-grafia while Danae Demetriadi and Dionysios Alamanos follow with their work Napi, the Girl and the Bubble . Part B continues with Samatha Moysi's Gray Beats my Soul , which was awarded during the recent Cyprus Choreography Platform. The final performance of the 2022 festival welcomes Gil Kerer from Israel with the piece Concerto for Mandolin and Strings in C Major by Vivaldi.

Also at Egomio Cultural Centre, on Sunday is a series of short film screenings within the framework of the dance film festival Moving Images. Between 12pm and 5pm German dance films will be presented in collaboration with the Goethe-institut Zypern. Three films give a glimpse into the dance scene in Germany, where many international artists work. The films are New Version, Dignity and Carrieres which will be shown in a continuous loop throughout the event.

Dance Waves Festival 2022

Two days of dance performances. November 26-27. Egomio Cultural Centre, Nicosia. 7.30pm on day 1, 5.30pm on day 2. é¼10 for adults, é¼5 for children. Tel: 22-781104
50
Kolkata: After a two year break, LGBTQI+ international film festival Dialogues returned to Kolkata on Thursday for its 16th edition. The festival was supposed to be concluded on Sunday but it was extended for three more days. Collaborated between Goethe-institut Kolkata (Max Mueller Bhavan) and social organisations Sapho for Equality and Pratyay Gender Trust, the festival, held at Indira Cinema in Bhowanipore, screened 42 films, including a series of short films from this year's Kurzfilm Festival, Germany, following a curation by Berlin-based film critic, Toby Ashraf. Max Mueller Bhavan director, Astrid Wege, said, "Dialogues is a space for open dialogue and respectful exchange, where different perspectives and views are heard. As a partner of the festival, the Goethe-institut Kolkata stands for cultural diversity and the freedom of self-determination. We are pleased to contribute with exciting films and speakers from Germany. And we are delighted that after two years online, the festival could take place in a real cinema again." Having participated in Dialogues since 2007, co-founder of Pratyay Gender Trust, Anindya Hajra, said, "The festival is meant not only for queer people but also for cinema lovers. It is a way for trans and queer people to claim the cinematic heritage of the city. Through these dialogues, we are making visible the allusion of queer culture that have largely been left under-represented." History professor, Nandita Banerjee, who was among the audience at the festival, said, "Such festivals celebrate an open space for conversations and expression. For conservative-minded people, it creates a space to normalize another point of view." Ujan Ganguly, who identifies as queer, said, " I plan to attend the festival as it's a fun way to meet like minded people who create a safe community space for celebrating diversity."
51
To mark the 65th anniversary of Max Mueller Bhavan (Goethe-institut) in Kolkata, Cologne-based artist Katja Davar collaborated with local Bengali artists to create a permanent art installation on its staircase, representing cultural connections through old and new technologies. Davar collaborated with artist Neelanjana Ghosh to create a 17-metre textile work that includes Davar's pencil drawings. Goethe-institut director Astrid Wege said, "This multi-layered artistic intervention transforms relevant topics into an aesthetically impressive experience and builds bridges between Bengal and Europe." The cultural centre opened in 1957, five years after its first international centre in Athens. Berthold Franke, Goethe-institute regional director South Asia, said, "India has been a paradigmatic learning experience for Goethe-institute."
52
To mark the 65th anniversary of Max Mueller Bhavan (Goethe-institut) in Kolkata, Cologne-based artist Katja Davar collaborated with local Bengali artists to create a permanent art installation on its staircase, representing cultural connections through old and new technologies. Davar collaborated with artist Neelanjana Ghosh to create a 17-metre textile work that includes Davar's pencil drawings. Goethe-institut director Astrid Wege said, "This multi-layered artistic intervention transforms relevant topics into an aesthetically impressive experience and builds bridges between Bengal and Europe." The cultural centre opened in 1957, five years after its first international centre in Athens. Berthold Franke, Goethe-institute regional director South Asia, said, "India has been a paradigmatic learning experience for Goethe-institute."
53
The Brockas band, composed of filmmakers Khavn dela Cruz, Roxlee and Lav Diaz, had a 'jam-packed' concert at the Burning Tent in Jihlava, Czech Republic recently. The band did a 'live scoring' of Dela Cruz's silent film 'Pink Bomba Manifesto.'

'The jampacked audience went wild while dancing, screaming, and doing all sorts of devilish revelry,' Dela Cruz recounted in a recent virtual chat. 'Rene Kubasek (former diplomat and currently in charge of international communication for the festival) even said this particular gig of The Brockas was 'the greatest rock 'n' roll swindle' he has witnessed in all his years in Jihlava.'

Live-scoring 'Nosferatu'

Locally, The Brockas will be playing 'nonstop for 100 minutes' on Nov. 25, 6 p.m. at Shangri-La Plaza Cineplex in Mandaluyong City, Dela Cruz reported. 'We've been invited by the Goethe-institut to live-score the 100th anniversary of Murnau's 'Nosferatu,' the first vampire movie, for the International Silent Film Festival Manila,' he shared.

Roxlee

Roxlee

Dela Cruz had been busy these past few months. 'Overdosed Nightmare,' his 14-year-old short film starring Marvin Agustin, was exhibited at the recent Jihlava International Documentary Film Festival in Czech Republic, where the director was also head tutor on filmmaking during a special session held at the Jihlava Academy, Inquirer Entertainment learned.

''Overdosed Nightmare' is one of those films that got lost in the shuffle. After screening at Cinemalaya in 2008, it hasn't been shown elsewhere in the world, even if it stars Marvin Agustin and even if it was one of the five films in my French-released Bluray box set,' Dela Cruz said. 'It's great that Jihlava programmers Andrea Slovakova, Adriana Belesova and Petr Kubica 'rediscovered' it and included it in the festival's Philippine Retrospective.'

Head juror

Dela Cruz also reported that he has been teaching at the Jihlava Academy for five years now. 'It's always within the duration of the festival,' he said, adding that his students are from different parts of the globe and different artistic persuasions. 'The previous two sessions were during the pandemic so we had to go online. The lessons have always been about going out there and making a film every day, how to overcome your personal blocks and demons and just doing it now and expressing your heart and soul.'

Lav Diaz

Lav Diaz

Meanwhile, his film 'Love Is A Dog From Hell,' which was the closing film in Berlin Critics Week earlier this year, was exhibited at the 2022 Festival du Nouveau Cinema in Montreal, Canada, last month.

He was also head juror at the 2022 SeaShorts Film Festival in Selangor, Malaysia held last September. 'As head juror, it's not about dictating or dominating the conversation. You ensure that the opinion of the other jury members is respected and represented; as well as how to judge without being judgmental; how to judge using your gut, which is more intelligent than your brain; and how to compare apples and oranges, rambutan and durian,' Dela Cruz pointed out.

'I remember one of our high school teachers who [decides our] grades using a dartboard. Judging is highly subjective. [It] depends on the composition of the jury and the biases of each judge, plus other viewing factors: time of day, caffeine level, etc. One thing is clear: that Southeast Asian short filmmaking is alive and kicking. The future of cinema is blinding,' said the filmmaker when asked what he has learned from his most recent jury duty.
54
 During the pandemic, many members of the LGBTQIA+ community lost jobs, and were forced to go back to the homes of their biological parents, where they faced harassment and violence. Some even crossed state borders to find safe spaces in other states. That's why, the tenth edition of 'Reel Desires: Chennai International Queer Film Festival' (CIQFF) features a panel discussion (November 12) on the pressing need for shelter and housing for community members."The LGBT community has conducted 18 queer film festivals in Chennai from 2004. Since 2013, it has been held under the aegis of CIQFF," says L Ramakrishnan of SAATHII, an NGO. CIQFF 2022, organised by Orinam and Goethe-institut in collaboration with Nirangal Charitable Trust and SAATHII, will be held from November 11 to 13.In the last decade there has been many legal and policy developments at the national level - the 2013 SC verdict, which overturned Delhi high court's 2009 verdict and made homosexuality a crime again; The Rights of Transgender Persons Bill, 2014; decriminalisation of homosexuality in 2018; The Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Act, 2019, and so on. "And the short films and documentaries screened at CIQFF as well as the panel discussions are always relevant to what's going on in the country. During the spread of Covid-19, LGBTQIA+ members who had to go back home were forced to go back into the closet, faced violence or were forced into marriages, so the panel discussion on November 12 focuses on housing."The last two years, CIQFF has been held online. This year, CIQFF will feature 22 films - shorts, documentaries and feature films - from eight countries, which will be screened at Goethe-institut. Highlights include 'Pride', a short by Arun Siddharth and 'Valentine @3', a feature film by Chennai-based filmmaker Mani Shankar Iyer."The two-hour film is an anthology of three stories about gay men in different stages of their lives. The first deals with a mother and son and how she understands and support his sexuality, the second deals with gay marriage and the last one about two men who meet in a cab," says Iyer, adding that it has been screened at film festivals and won several awards. "The movie has been shot in single takes, has very minimal cuts and has no background score, only dialogue and sound effects to give it a realistic feel."
55
During the pandemic, many members of the LGBTQIA+ community lost jobs, and were forced to go back to the homes of their biological parents, where they faced harassment and violence. Some even crossed state borders to find safe spaces in other states. That's why, the tenth edition of 'Reel Desires: Chennai International Queer Film Festival' (CIQFF) features a panel discussion (November 12) on the pressing need for shelter and housing for community members. ôThe LGBT community has conducted 18 queer film festivals in Chennai from 2004. Since 2013, it has been held under the aegis of CIQFF,ö says L Ramakrishnan of SAATHII, an NGO. CIQFF 2022, organised by Orinam and Goethe-institut in collaboration with Niran- gal Charitable Trust and SAATHII, will be held from November 11 to 13. In the last decade there has been many legal and policy developments at the national levelthe 2013 SC verdict, which overturned Delhi high court's 2009 verdict and made homosexuality a crime again; The Rights of Transgender Persons Bill, 2014; decriminalisation of homosexuality in 2018; The Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Act, 2019, and so on. ôAnd the short films and documentaries screened at CIQFF as well as the panel discussions are always relevant to what's going on in the country. During the spread of Covid-19, LGBTQIA+ members who had to go back home were forced to go back into the closet, faced violence or were forced into marriages, so the panel discussion on November 12 focuses on housing.ö The last two years, CIQFF has been held online. This year, CIQFF will feature 22 filmsshorts, documentaries and feature filmsfrom eight countries, which will be screened at Goethe-institut. Highlights include 'Pride', a short by Arun Siddharth and 'Valentine @3', a feature film by Chennai-based filmmaker Mani Shankar Iyer. ôThe two-hour film is an anthology of three stories about gay men in different stages of their lives. The first deals with a mother and son and how she understands and support his sexuality, the second deals with gay marriage and the last one about two men who meet in a cab,ö says Iyer, adding that it has been screened at film festivals and won several awards. ôThe movie has been shot in single takes, has very minimal cuts and has no background score, only dialogue and sound effects to give it a realistic feel.
56
The European Union (EU) Delegation in Sri Lanka and the Maldives together with its implementing partners have organised a series of activities under the broader campaign of 'EU Support for a Peaceful and Inclusive Society' at the Independence Arcade, Colombo 7 from 26 October till 11 November 2022.

The exhibition space will be open to the public from 1 p.m. to 6 p.m. on weekdays and 9.30 a.m. to 6 p.m. on Saturdays.

EU Ambassador to Sri Lanka and the Maldives Denis Chaibi said: 'For the European Union, inclusion, solidarity and human dignity are fundamental values, because they serve peace, our ultimate goal. 'Thus, an inclusive and peaceful society is one of the two priorities of the EU's cooperation with Sri Lanka from 2021 to 2027. We hope this campaign, through art and dialogue will foster an enabling environment that promotes peace, solidarity and unity in diversity.'

Visitors can view the art exhibits of the winning entries including those shortlisted from the 'Art for Peace' children's virtual art competition that was held in June this year, as part of Europe Day celebrations. This will be complemented by art workshops conducted by three renowned and talented artists.

The venue also hosts the EU-funded photographic exhibition 'Thé Kahata', organised by the Centre for Policy Alternatives (CPA), which features creative visual images captured by youth from the plantation community, and 'Costumes Speak', an exhibition that explores different social influences on Rukada puppetry and the role different communities play in shaping artistic traditions.

An interactive digital library consisting of audio and visual materials of the numerous initiatives of the EU funded projects is available for guests to access and indulge in.

The campaign on EU Support for a Peaceful and Inclusive Society, commenced with a jazz music tour across three key cities in Sri Lanka in celebration of European Day of Languages in partnership with the Embassy of Switzerland, Embassy of Italy, Embassy of France, Alliance Française, Goethe-institut and the British Council.

This was followed by 'Threads on Threads: An International Conference on Textiles in Sri Lanka, South Asia and Europe', organised in partnership with the Threads of History Museum and Lanka Decorative Arts, as an initiative of the EU Cultural Heritage Series.
57
If asked to name a female scientist, most people will mention Marie Curie - the Polish-French physicist who discovered radium and polonium, and contributed to the treatment of cancer.

But she died some 88 years ago, and since then, hardly any women have become household names in the scientific industry.

Addressing this very problem is the German short film 'Mind the Gap - (No) Role Models', which is among the 34 films being shown at the 18th Science Film Festival, which runs until December 20.

The theme of the festival this year is 'Equal Opportunities in Science', which aims to shed light on the role of women in science.

The Science Film Festival was launched in 2005 by the Institute for the Promotion of Teaching Science and Technology (IPST) in collaboration with the Goethe-institut of Thailand.

Over the years, the event has won increasing support from partners and organisations and has also been on the radar of teachers, students and parents.
58
Operation of the central service desk (hotline) for the elimination of it malfunctions for approx. 6000 users at approx. 150 locations worldwide, the operation and rollout of institute infrastructure equipment for approx. 150 client locations worldwide, procurement and dispatch of it equipment and general consulting lines. a detailed description of the required service can be found in annex 1 "service description".Subject of the service: 1. provision and implementation of the customers central hotline (single point of contact spoc). the processing of all incoming tickets for 150 locations worldwide. communication with the hotline takes place in german and also in english.2. troubleshooting and making changes to it services at around 150 locations worldwide via remote access to the it systems. the itil process methodology is used (see terms incident, request, change, problem management).3. delivery, installation/updating of it systems at approx. 150 locations worldwide and monitoring of these systems.4. execution of central procurement on behalf of the customer, packaging and shipping of it equipment to around 150 customer locations worldwide.5. consulting services for the design, development, implementation and administration of it objects and processes. the it service management services are provided for around 5000 internal and 4000 external employees at around 150 locations in 90 countries worldwide. the clients employees mostly speak german. the essential it services are listed in annex 1b quantity sheet.

Major organization : Goethe-institut E.V. - ZENTRALE

Address : oskar-von-miller-ring 18

Country :Germany

Email : gerd.bohla@goethe.de

Tender notice number : 549332-2022

Notice type : Tender Notice

Open date : 2022-11-10

Tender documents : T479053514.html , G479053514.html , X479053514.html
59
Kolkata: Having been relegated to a space of nostalgia and collector's memorabilia for years, vinyl records are again gaining popularity, not only for listeners of contemporary music, but also for Kolkata musicians who sample the organic sounds of old vinyl tracks for the production of their new songs. Observing a rapid growth of 'vinyl culture' in the city, a collector said, ôThe two main categories of collectors are those who collect western classics and those who collect retro albums from the '50's to '70's. Now we are seeing the emergence of a third categorythose who collect the hiphop and electronic genres that were popularized in the '80's and '90's. Much of the collections of the third category are by contemporary musicians who use these tracks to develop their own music, by sampling the older tunes into their own songs.ö 'Sampling' is the process of digitally encoding and reusing an older composition into anew piece of music. Singer and songwriter Joell Mukherjee said, ôWhile recording my latest song, I used a piece of sitar which was sampled from a vinyl record. Sampling from vinyls is very popular among contemporary musicians.ö Singer Sukanya Majumder said, ôMy latest single was produced in a studio as an LP Record. It was my first time involved in producing a record. I was introduced to it through my collaboration with a French artist. As compared to digital music making, musicians today are harking back on the tradition of having their songs on a vinyl as it legitimises their work. It's also nice to have something to physically touch, and call your own piece of work.ö Limerick based aspiring music student Projjwal Bhattacharya added, ôIt is really special for an artist to record an album on a record. Unlike digitally produced music, records have a structure to it and each song is played serially and cannot be skipped. The experience is authentic, both for the artist and the listener.ö Earlier this month, Majumder contributed a copy of her album to a Ballygunge caf, one of the few public places in the city where people can collectively listen to records. Varun Desai, who runs the caf, also designs the record covers. ôWe get a huge crowd on our 'Vinyl Sundays'. People really enjoy the authentic crackling sound of the records spinning. We also clean old records. It's a way to functionalise family heirlooms that has been passed on to people through older generations of collectors.ö The caf houses two rare Technic 1,200 turntables and several records of Desai's personal collection. Cultural institutions are initiating vinyl clubs to gather the community and spread awareness. Astrid Wege, director of Goethe-institut said, ôThe institute has been able to preserve its vinyl record collection over the years and is planning to open it to the public through curated listening sessions. We want to invite the community of music lovers and vinyl enthusiasts to access this treasure trove, some of which are rare and unavailable in digital formats. In Germany, vinyl records are still popular and are gradually making a comeback. I hope that in Kolkata, we will also find enthusiasts passionate about this format. Danish Sheikh, a New Market vinyl store owner, said, ôKolkata was home to one of Asia's oldest recording studios, that manufactured vinyls. Our city's tradition for vinyl is deeply-rooted. Nowadays I get visits from not only collectors but also aspiring musicians.
60
Inspired by the famous European fairy tale Little Red Riding Hood by the Brothers Grimm, it is a 'one-woman show' by the very talented Laurie Cannac and a whole universe of puppets. Directed by Ilka Schönbein with Laurie Cannac's design and interpretation, Wolfed Down was nominated for the Molières Jeune Public Prize in 2010, said a press release. This 'Gothic' version of Little Red Riding Hood builds an eclectic connection between the puppet and the actress's body, explores

its animistic power, and successfully combines

poetry and a sense of humour. The puppetry work of Graine de Vie, Laurie Cannac's company, combined with the ideas of the great 'alchemist' Ilka Schönbein, stands for a popular and particular form of theatre favouring emotion and breaking taboos with an

illusionary art skill, using masks and her expressionist aesthetic. Laurie Cannac is a puppeteer. First trained

in the art of drama at the Théâtre-Ecole du Passage,

led by Nils Arestrup and Alexandre Del Perugia.

She learned puppet theatre just by playing in the street. The performance will be in English.
61
The Embassies of Austria, Germany, Switzerland and the Goethe-institut Cyprus organise another edition of the Weeks of the German Language this autumn. Aiming at promoting multilingualism in Cyprus and contributing to the cultural exchange between Cyprus, Austria, Germany and Switzerland, several cultural events will take place for the 6th successive year.

Throughout the Weeks of the German Language, from October 23 to November 28, there will be a diverse programme of happenings related to the German language and the culture of the three German-speaking countries, such as classical music concerts, analysis of German-language literature, film screenings and more.

Some of the highlights of this year's programme include a piano recital by Mario HÈñring with well-known pieces of German composers and the presentation on German romanticism and its legacy today, organised by the German Embassy. The Goethe-institut Cyprus participates with a video competition for young German learners and the event Moving Silence in cooperation with ARTos House, where for the 12th successive year, musicians and composers from Germany and Cyprus come together for a unique combination of music and film.

Additionally, the Cypriot-German Cultural Association will give visitors a taste of tradition at the German Christmas Fayre towards the end of November while the Austrian Embassy will take visitors back to the 80s with a film on the unusually thrilling life of well-known pop star Falco. Also with a screening, the Embassy of Switzerland will present an uplifting comedy, Eden fÈ­r Jeden (Eden for All) in Swiss German in Nicosia and Limassol.

Just before rounding up the Weeks of the German Language, an on-stage musical performance, co-organised by the three embassies and dedicated to the Magical World of Lieder, will take place with Cypriot sopranos Chryso Makariou and Mariza Anastasiades at the Rialto Theatre. Finally, the Cyprus Swiss Association closes this year's programme with a live public viewing of the World Cup match Brazil vs Switzerland accompanied by sausages and Brezel.

"After two years' obligatory abstention due to the pandemic," comment organisers, "we are once again opening the Weeks of the German Language with an open-air event at Faneromeni Square on Sunday, October 23 between 10am and 2pm. This traditional street festival boasts an array of activities especially for youngsters, including the possibility to make their very own wooden creations together with the Wood Wizards workshop. A street quest suitable for all ages, will take you through the narrow streets of the old city. The Bierstein Blasmusik band with its German classics and other popular hits will enliven Faneromeni Square! Visitors will have the chance to try different delicacies from the German-speaking countries and to watch one of Switzerland's oldest sports -- flag swinging."

Opening of the Weeks of the German Language

Street fest with creative workshops, live German music, flag swinging and more. October 23. Faneromeni Square, Nicosia. 10am-2pm. www.wddscyprus.com
62

 In an effort to raise awareness on environmental consciousness and sustainability, Goethe-institut set up a virtual reality pop-up installation featuring the impact of climate change on Sundarbans on the grounds of Science City on Monday. The project was put together by architect Shayantan Maitra who has been constructing sustainable shelters for flood victims in the Sundarbans. ôWe need to realise that the the magnitude of the floods that are happening in the Sundarbans today is the future of Kolkata tomorrow. The threat of climate change is much more severe in urban spaces due to the chemical waste from small scale industries polluting the water supply. Despite the collosal problem, there is very little awareness,ö he said. The event is part of a three-day programme by the Goethe-institut called 'Towards a Better Tomorrow', in which perspectives surrounding environmental sustaina- bility is showcased through VR, moving images, and videos at Science City, Victoria Memorial and Kheyada High School. Discussing Kolkata's potential in promoting sustainability, consul general of Germany to Kolkata, Manfred Auster had said last week, ôKolkata faces one of the greatest risks in the global problem of climate change. However, with all the work being done to restore public lakes and plant trees, it is a very good basis for citizen involvement, from the grassroots.
63
 The European Commission launched Culture Moves Europe, its new permanent mobility scheme for artists and cultural professionals, as well as a first call for individual mobility.

Benefiting from a total budget of pound 21 million under the Creative Europe programme for a three-year-period (2022-2025), Culture Moves Europe becomes the largest European mobility scheme for artists and cultural professionals, targeting all Creative Europe countries (including Armenia, Georgia, and Ukraine) and sectors covered by the Culture Strand of the programme.

Implemented by the Goethe-institut, on behalf of the Commission, Culture Moves Europe comprises two actions: individual mobility and residencies. Through mobility grants, it will offer an opportunity to around 7,000 individual artists and cultural professionals to go abroad, in the EU and beyond. From early 2023, they also will be able to take part in artistic residencies or host artists and cultural professionals.

he first call for individual mobility targets artists and cultural professionals working in architecture, cultural heritage, design, fashion design, literary translation, music, visual arts and performing arts.

Individual mobility action will operate on a basis of the rolling calls open every year from autumn to spring, with monthly evaluations.

Full details are available at https://culture.ec.europa.eu/calls/call-for-individual-mobility-of-artists-and-cultural-professionals

To apply, candidates must complete an application form in English after registering on the Goethe-institut application platform.

The deadline for applications is October 31, 2022.
64
A series of unique pop-up events exploring various concerns that need attention for making Kolkata more sustainable will be held next week across three venues in the city - Science City, Victoria Memorial Hall and a school in the East Kolkata Wetlands (EKW). Led by Goethe-institut/Max Mueller Bhavan, Kolkata, the events will try to make citizens aware of the alarming effects of climate change and pollution and motivate people to take steps, individual and collective, towards leading a more sustainable lifestyle. A mobile pop-up installation created by artists Sumantra Mukherjee, Amlan Chaudhury and Arup Pramanik using local sustainable materials, will travel to Science City, Victoria Memorial Hall and Kheyada High School. At each location, the events will focus on different topics: climate change with focus on the Sundarbans, adopting recycling and repair as a way of life, and encouraging sustainable mobility to reduce air pollution."Finding answers to the challenges of climate change and leading a more sustainable lifestyle in a big city like Kolkata are central to the survival of mankind. With the project 'Towards a Better Tomorrow', Goethe-institut/Max Mueller Bhavan Kolkata, in collaboration with other European and local partners, aims to raise awareness about these challenges and concerns. At the same time, it playfully conveys practical approaches to possible solutions," said Goethe-institut/Max Mueller Bhavan Kolkata director Astrid Wege.Architect and curator Sayantan Maitra has stitched together a programme for Science City that includes discussions, video footage, virtual reality and games and quiz on sustainable mobility to increase awareness on Sundarbans and its vulnerability to climate change. Artist and designer Kallol Datta will conduct a workshop at VMH where participants will learn about textiles and sustainable fashion. Activities will include using blocks and paint to transform old things to new, learning to deconstruct and reconstructing clothing and upcycling the forms into contemporary pieces of garments. At EKW, the Disappearing Dialogues Collective will engage the audience in wetland dialogues to impart a holistic understanding on the roles that EKW plays in sustainability. The wetland trails, co-guided by community children, will be a major highlight.
65
 A series of unique pop-up events exploring various concerns that need attention for making Kolkata more sustainable will be held next week across three venues in the cityScience City, Victoria Memorial Hall and a school in the East Kolkata Wetlands (EKW). Led by Goethe-institut/ Max Mueller Bhavan, Kolkata, the events will try to make citizens aware of the alarming effects of climate change and pollution and motivate people to take steps, individual and collective, towards leading a more sustainable lifestyle. A mobile pop-up installation created by artists Sumantra Mukherjee, Amlan Chaudhury and Arup Pramanik using local sustainable materials, will travel to Science City, Victoria Memorial Hall and Kheyada High School. At each location, the events will focus on different topics: climate change with focus on the Sundarbans, adopting recycling and repair as a way of life, and encouraging sustainable mobility to reduce air pollution. ôFinding answers to the challenges of climate change and leading a more sustainable lifestyle in a big city like Kolkata are central to the survival of mankind. With the project 'Towards a Better Tomorrow', Goethe-institut/Max Mueller Bhavan Kolkata, in collaboration with other European and local partners, aims to raise awareness about these challenges and concerns. At the same time, it playfully conveys practical approaches to possible solutions,ö said Goethe-institut/Max Mueller Bhavan Kolkata director Astrid Wege. Architect and curator Sayantan Maitra has stitched together a programme for Science City that includes discussions, video footage, virtual reality and games and quiz on sustainable mobility to increase awareness on Sundarbans and its vulnerability to climate change. Artist and designer Kallol Datta will conduct a workshop at VMH where participants will learn about textiles and sustainable fashion. Activities will include using blocks and paint to transform old things to new, learning to deconstruct and reconstructing clothing and upcycling the forms into contemporary pieces of garments. At EKW, the Disappearing Dialogues Collective will engage the audience in wetland dialogues to impart a holistic understanding on the roles that EKW plays in sustainability. The wetland trails, co-guided by community children, will be a major highlight.
66
Goethe-institut Pune, also known as Max Mueller Bhavan Pune, will organise the sixth edition of a science film festival from October to December this year.The first screening will be held on October 14 at the National Film Archive of India (NFAI), Law College Road, from 3pm to 6pm. The three films to be showcased on Friday are "Miracle Body: Breaking Limits With Hyper Adaptability" (Natural Science, Life Science and Technology), "With Heart and High-Tech - How People Master Challenges" (Natural Science, Life Science and Technology) and "The Recycling Lie" (Ecology and Environment).The festival will showcase various scientific issues, such as accessibility, in an entertaining manner. Even though the target audience for this film festival is between the age group of five and 16, the screenings will be fun and an educative watch for adults as well. Besides school and college students, the films will be open for the general public, too, and entry will be free on a first-come-first-served basis.The festival aims to promote literacy in science and facilitate awareness of contemporary scientific, technological and environmental issues through international films accompanied by various educational activities.The science film festival will also be hosted by Goethe-instituts of New Delhi, Chennai, Mumbai and Kolkata in collaboration with their respective partner schools and institutions.
67
Contract notice: it service management achievements

Operation of the central service desk (hotline) for the elimination of it malfunctions for approx. 6000 users at approx. 150 locations worldwide, the operation and rollout of institute infrastructure equipment for approx. 150 client locations worldwide, procurement and dispatch of it equipment and general consulting lines. a detailed description of the required service can be found in annex 1 "service description".Subject of the service: 1. provision and implementation of the customers central hotline (single point of contact spoc). the processing of all incoming tickets for 150 locations worldwide. communication with the hotline takes place in german and also in english.2. troubleshooting and making changes to it services at around 150 locations worldwide via remote access to the it systems. the itil process methodology is used (see terms incident, request, change, problem management).3. delivery, installation/updating of it systems at approx. 150 locations worldwide and monitoring of these systems.4. execution of central procurement on behalf of the customer, packaging and shipping of it equipment to around 150 customer locations worldwide.5. consulting services for the design, development, implementation and administration of it objects and processes. the it service management services are provided for around 5000 internal and 4000 external employees at around 150 locations in 90 countries worldwide. the clients employees mostly speak german. the essential it services are listed in annex 1b quantity sheet.

Major organization : Goethe-institut E.V. - ZENTRALE

Address : oskar-von-miller-ring 18

Country :Germany

Email : gerd.bohla@goethe.de

Tender notice number : 549332-2022

Notice type : Tender Notice

Open date : 2022-11-07

Tender documents : T479053514.html , G479053514.html

© 2022 Al Bawaba (Albawaba.com) Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc. ( Syndigate.info ).
68
The German community in Bahrain has celebrated the German Unity Day with joy and commitment for a brighter future.

The national anniversary commemorates German reunification in 1990 when the Federal Republic of Germany and the German Democratic Republic were unified.

The newly appointed German Ambassador to Bahrain, Clemens Hach who hosted a reception to mark the event confirmed commitment to expanding and boosting relations with Bahrain across various sectors.

"We have celebrated this year our 50th anniversary of diplomatic relations, and these years reflect an ever-growing friendship and excellent relations," he said.

"We have a lot of interests in common and good trade relations, which are witnessing growth, so I'm really looking forward to my tenure here and to try to contribute to make these relations even better for the future."

The volume of trade exchange between the two countries in 2021 amounted to $ 604,634,045, which made Germany the 21st largest export market for Bahrain, and the 10th largest import market for the Kingdom.

German companies have contributed to the progress of Bahrain's economic through its investors in Healthcare, Energy, Environmental Technologies, Mobility, Digital Economy, and many different sectors.

"We have major German companies who created jobs, and those companies have chosen Bahrain as a hub for their trading activities in the region. There is more to do, and this is what we are going to work on for the next couple of years," the diplomat said.

Ambassador Hach highlighted Bahrain's environmental plan that is supported by Germany, especially within the framework of their mutual agreements on climate change

.

"I think Bahrain has very important goals being carbon neutral by 2060, and I believe Germen companies with their technology should be able to make a great contribution to achieve this goal."

In the cultural sector, the regional office of the Goethe-institut (GI), located in Abu Dhabi, has been responsible for Bahrain since 2006.

The cultural events offered by the German embassy in collaboration with Bahraini partner organizations attract considerable interest. German language courses are offered by the embassy, the University of Bahrain (UoB) and the Bahrain School.

"We are reaching excellent political and economic relations, and we believe that to have the full picture of our relations, we must focus on the cultural relations too. Bahrain is a country in the region that is extremely rich in its own history, and this history is very little known in Europe and Germany, and I will work on highlighting it," he said.

The minister pointed out to the great advantage for foreign students to study in Germany where the education has minimal fees.

"I invite Bahrainis to take their time learn German to go study there, Germany is a fantastic option and an economic one," he said.

Publishing Rights Reserved to Bahrain News Agency © 2003 - 2022 Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc. ( Syndigate.info ).
69
After completing Takween's intensive training and mentorship Product Design Fellowship programme, 26 early and mid-career designers from Jordan will present the results of their seven-month journey in a celebratory exhibition to be held between October 11 15.

Takween's Product Design Fellowship was created to aid designers and other creatives in Jordan after the COVID-19 pandemic. This year, the fellowship was expanded to include two specialised streams for product design, with one focusing on physical product design, and the other concentrated on digital product design.

The two tracks were facilitated by Jordanian designers Qusai Malahmeh and Ala'a Ali, respectively, according to a statement from the Goethe-institut.

The programme included an intensive, 102-hour modular learning programme on the intersections of economic, social, and environmental sustainability in product design, with subjects including entrepreneurship, design ergonomics and service design, or financing and sustainable design thinking.

The modules were presented by experts working within Jordan or the region, the statement said.

Each fellow was then matched with local businesses and organisations working in digital or physical product design. The fellows engaged in an immersive 200-hour internship and gained hands-on experience dealing with clients, design challenges and the development of products and services, the statement added.

Fellows were also connected with mentors who guided the young designers throughout the programme and helped them develop their own final products. The results of the whole programme, including the end products, will be put on display during Takween's upcoming Product Design Fellowship Exhibition, to be held at the Takween office in downtown Amman.
70
The Commission launches Culture Moves Europe, its new permanent mobility scheme for artists and cultural professionals, as well as a first call for individual mobility, during a high-level event in Brussels, Belgium. Benefiting from a total budget of 21 million under the Creative Europe programme for a three-year-period (2022-2025), Culture Moves Europe becomes the largest European mobility scheme for artists and cultural professionals targeting all Creative Europe countries and sectors covered by the Culture Strand of the programme.

Participants will include representatives of the EU institutions, stakeholders and organisations from the cultural sector. Culture Moves Europe addresses the pressing needs of the cultural and creative sectors for inclusive and sustainable mobility opportunities with reinforced attention to emerging artists.

Commissioner for Innovation, Research, Culture, Education and Youth, Mariya Gabriel, said: With Culture Moves Europe, the Commission paves the way for the future of the cultural and creative sectors. And it offers enhanced opportunities for emerging artists and cultural professionals to gear up their skills and their ties with European partners. It acknowledges how mobility exchanges shape our present and influences the future of our intertwined communities. It bridges mobility with sustainability and inclusion, as promoted by the European Green Deal.

Implemented by the Goethe-institut on behalf of the Commission, Culture Moves Europe comprises two actions: individual mobility and residencies. Through mobility grants, it will offer an opportunity to around 7,000 individual artists and cultural professionals to go abroad, in the EU and beyond, for professional development or international collaborations, to take part in artistic residencies or to host artists and cultural professionals. The residencies action will be launched in early 2023.

The first call for individual mobility targets artists and cultural professionals working in the following sectors: architecture, cultural heritage, design, fashion design, literary translation, music, visual arts and performing arts from the countries participating in the Creative Europe programme and travelling to another Creative Europe country, for a duration of 7 to 60 days for individual artists and of 7 to 21 days for groups of people (2 to 5 people).
71
Contract notice: it service management achievements

Operation of the central service desk (hotline) for the elimination of it malfunctions for approx. 6000 users at approx. 150 locations worldwide, the operation and rollout of institute infrastructure equipment for approx. 150 client locations worldwide, procurement and dispatch of it equipment and general consulting lines. a detailed description of the required service can be found in annex 1 "service description".Subject of the service: 1. provision and implementation of the customers central hotline (single point of contact spoc). the processing of all incoming tickets for 150 locations worldwide. communication with the hotline takes place in german and also in english.2. troubleshooting and making changes to it services at around 150 locations worldwide via remote access to the it systems. the itil process methodology is used (see terms incident, request, change, problem management).3. delivery, installation/updating of it systems at approx. 150 locations worldwide and monitoring of these systems.4. execution of central procurement on behalf of the customer, packaging and shipping of it equipment to around 150 customer locations worldwide.5. consulting services for the design, development, implementation and administration of it objects and processes. the it service management services are provided for around 5000 internal and 4000 external employees at around 150 locations in 90 countries worldwide. the clients employees mostly speak german. the essential it services are listed in annex 1b quantity sheet.

Major organization : Goethe-institut E.V. - ZENTRALE

Address : Oskar-von-Miller-Ring 18.
72
The European Union (EU) Delegation to the Philippines is bringing free European films to Iloilo under its Cine Europa film festival from Oct. 5 to 13.

The fest started on September 14 in Manila and runs until the end of October, going hybrid this year as it also sets foot in Cebu City and Palawan.

Cine Europa 2022 Iloilo leg would begin with the Spanish film Las Ninas (School girls) on October 5 and would have a total of 25 onsite screenings at the Film Development Council of the Philippines Cinematheque.

The initial film, which won the Goya Award for Best Film, is a delicate coming-of-age drama set in 90s Spain.

The screenings would be held in the afternoon and evening, and admission is free on a first-come, first-served basis. Moviegoers may also catch the 2022 Cine Europa online via http://www.cineeuropaph.com.

Cine Europa 25 is organized by the EU Delegation to the Philippines, EU Member States' Embassies, Cultur Eireann, Irish Film Institute, Goethe-institut, Instituto Cervantes de Manila and the Philippine-Italian Association, in partnership with the National Parks and Development Committee, the Film Development Council and the Cultural Center of the Philippines, as well as other local and commercial partners. (PNA)
73
The Goethe-institut Namibia will be offering Science, Technology, Engineering, Art, and Mathematics (STEAM) in October and November.

The initiative will offer learners a new approach to knowledge and unveil a path to the application of 21st-century skills.

The Institut said the Lego courses will start from 1 October to 19 November and the Dash courses will start from 3 October to 21 November and learners' registration will be a once of N$1600.

"We offer four levels of robotics, level 0 dash robot and programming with fun for the ages of 6 to 12 years, level 1 lego robotics and engineering for the ages of 8 to 16 years, level 2 robotics and electronics for the ages of 8 to 16 years and level 3 robotics and industrial automation from the ages of 8 to 16 years," they added.

The Goethe-institut emphasised that participants will learn skills including thinking independently, identifying problems, developing a prototype solution, interpersonal communication, collaboration, confidence, and practical leadership.

"Participants have the chance to think of and build their creations through exploring basic electronic, sensors, motors, and alternative energy sources, and what is learned at school can be applied practically in real situations involving the fundamentals of technology and engineering and the principles of programming through fun activities with robots. Critical thinking is also important and participants will develop research skills when solving real problems," they said.

Science and mathematics concepts combined with technology and engagement principles are revealed through the process of building and programming Dash robots and Lego Mindstorms EV3 robot. STEAM education creates innovative learners and enhances social entrepreneurship opportunities.

The Dash Course takes place on a Monday from 14:30 to 16:30 and the Course level 1to3 takes place on Saturday from 10:00 to 12:00 at the Goethe-institut.
74
Contract notice: Award procedure for the procurement and introduction of a digital patient file for the center for dental, oral and maxillofacial medicine (Carolinum) at the Johann Wolfgang Goethe University in Frankfurt am Main

The new dental information system to be established should be found with this tender. it must be used across the board in all areas of dental work and must be deeply integrated. the system software must have all future-oriented interfaces such as hl7; dicom; financial accounting etc. as well as the master patient index (mpi) functionality and ihe conformity. the details can be found in the service description.The new dental information system to be established should be found with this tender. it must be used across the board in all areas of dental work and must be deeply integrated. the system software must have all future-oriented interfaces such as hl7; dicom; financial accounting etc. as well as the master patient index (mpi) functionality and ihe conformity. the details can be found in the service description.

Major organization : CAROLINUM ZAHNRZTLICHES UNIVERSITTS- INSTITUT GGMBH DER JOHANN WOLFGANG GOETHE-UNIVERSITT FRANKFURT AM MAIN

Address : theodor-stern-kai 7

Country :Germany

Email : Clara.Schmitz@twobirds.com

Tender notice number : 473397-2022

Notice type : Tender Notice

Open date : 2022-10-14.
75
Language lovers of all ages celebrated the European Day of Languages in Abu Dhabi with a rich programme of cultural and language activities.

The event was organised on Sunday by the European Union National Institutes for Culture (EUNIC) in the UAE, a consortium of organisations engaging in cultural relations, in collaboration with the European Union Delegation to the United Arab Emirates and various embassies of EU Member States and associate countries.

Hosted at the Alliance Francaise in Abu Dhabi, the event offered visitors a range of fun activities and challenges, including contests, storytelling, theatre performances, film screenings and language trivia with various giveaways and prizes. They also received information about language study options in the UAE and Europe.

In his opening remarks, Andrea Matteo Fontana, Ambassador of the European Union to the UAE, said: "The European Day of Languages is an opportunity to raise awareness about the variety of languages within Europe. It reflects our linguistic diversity and is a celebration of the cultural heritage of the European community.

Learning a second or even third language has become essential today, particularly for youth who are heading towards a more connected and digital future. We need to learn each other's languages to better communicate and promote dialogue and tolerance, which are much needed in our world."

Jii Slavik, Ambassador of the Czech Republic to the UAE said: "Czech Republic is the country currently holding the Presidency of the EU Council. I am pleased that our embassy in Abu Dhabi is part of the European Day of Languages. There is a unity in the diversity of EU countries' languages, a unity of values, similar cultural traditions, tolerance and cooperation for a better and common future of European states. Tomas Garigue Masaryk, the first President of Czechoslovakia, once said (the more languages you speak, the more you are human), and that is very true".

Participating embassies and institutes included the EU Delegation to the UAE, Goethe-institut Gulf Region, the Italian Cultural Institute in Abu Dhabi, Institut Francais in the UAE, and the embassies of Belgium, Czech Republic, Greece, Austria, Estonia, Ireland, Netherlands, Slovakia, Spain, Poland, and Switzerland.

The European Day of Languages, launched by Council of Europe in 2001, is celebrated annually on 26 September, and aims to encourage lifelong language learning and raise awareness about the importance of learning languages in improving intercultural understanding while promoting the rich linguistic and cultural diversity of Europe.

There are over 200 European languages and many more are spoken by citizens whose families are from other continents.
76
 The Amman Jazz Festival will kick off on September 28, celebrating 10 years of Jazz in Jordan with a vibrant and diverse programme.

The festival's main programme will take place at the OES Culture & Sports Building Theatre at the Orthodox Educational Society in Shmeisani, and will last until October 1, according to a statement from organisers.

The event will feature genres ranging from Spanish to quarter-tone guitar blues, live acoustic techno to Jordanian funk.

The Amman Jazz Festival is the only major event dedicated to Jazz in Jordan, and has gathered local and international artists over the years, according to festival organisers.

The festival also hosts music residencies, workshops and artists' talks annually.

The festival is organised by Orange Red, supported by the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Tourism and Antiquities, in partnership with Goethe-institut, the Austrian, Italian, Dutch, Spanish and Ukrainian embassies, Institute Cervantes, LPA Music and Societa Dante Aligheri Amman.

In addition to the main programme, this year's "Musiqa 3al Daraj" festival will take place in Fuheis, from September 27 until October 2. The festival is co-produced by the Amman Jazz Festival, the Goethe-institut and Orange Red and is supported by the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Tourism and Antiquities and Municipality of Fuheis.

After two years of virtual/hybrid editions, this year's festival presents a selection of live performances by Jordanian and international artists.

The week-long programme of concerts, workshops, residencies and jam sessions is intended to explore the diversity of Jazz and jazz-fusion.
77
Take off your shoes, step into a little box of sand, put on your Oculus headset and be transported into a world of virtual reality. The library at the Goethe-institut (Max Mueller Bhavan) has gone infinite thanks to a new travelling installation, which is on till September 24. Conceptualised by a multimedia artist by profession Mika Johnson, the 'Infinite Library' is an attempt to reimagine the future of libraries as interactive spaces that engage visitors through multisensory forms of storytelling. "What we've got are QR code games, holograms, audio-visual works, and a VR library set in a cave," says Subhasri Vijayakumar, head of information and library at Goethe-institut. When at the library, expect to find people in different stages of their immersive experience, some staring in wonder at stars, some lighting lamps, others trying to use fire tongs to carefully move glass vessels into boiling water.Scattered around the library, you will also find 3D-printed objects, like for instance, the replica of an ancient flute.The project is an immersive storytelling experience that visualizes different cultural backgrounds across past, present, and future, expanding the concept of the library into a cross-cultural concept of knowledge transfer through VR rooms.Within the VR world, you will be transported to different knowledge systems, from South Indian shadow puppetry, to European alchemy, and Polynesian navigation. To explore more about shadow puppetry, apart from the VR experience, there will be a real-life one as well with puppeteer A Selvaraj putting up a show on Saturday at 11am and at 3.30 pm.
78
Music will land in Tunisia after three stops in Sudan, Jordan and Germany. The regional touring sound exhibition will be held on September 26-October 1 at the seat of the Goethe-institut in Tunis.

Musical creations of seven artists from Western Asia and North and Northeastern Africa will come under spotlight.

The exhibition made a stop in Bonn, Germany, last August 9-27 after landing in Jordan (October 23-November 1, 2021) and Sudan (October 13-16, 2021).

The Tunis exhibition texts were written by artist and sonic agent, Christina Hazboun.

In its newsletter, Goethe-institut Tunis said Friday this is an event "held with the participation of musicians from seven different countries."

It will see the participation of Tunisian Rehab Hazgui, a multimedia artist, composer and improviser of electronic music, and fellow artists from Algeria (Amel Zen), Lebanon (Ghassan Sahhab), Iraq (Hajar Zahawy), Sudan (Mohamed Adam), Palestine (Zaid Jamal Hilal) and Jordan (Yacoub Abu Ghosh).
79
Picture this: You're inside a cave housing a vast futuristic library, branching out into different columns -each dedicated to a different knowledge system, such as south Indian puppetry, European alchemy, or polynesian navigation. Turning this fantasy into virtual reality, American multimedia artist Mika Johnson's project, Infinite Libraries, reimagines the future of libraries as interactive spaces that engages visitors through multisensory forms of storytelling. Brought to the city by Goethe-institut Max Mueller Bhavan Pune, the immersive VR installation will be available for citizens to experience at The Base, opposite SNDT College, Kothrud, from September 24 to September 30. Johnson explained the concept: ôThe Infinite Library is not brimming with books. Neither is it a building. Nor is it reminiscent of anything that reminds one of a traditional li- brary. It is an experience that takes place inside a virtual cave, with access to small chambers that double up as portals, or micro worlds, allowing you to travel in time.ö Talking about the inspiration behind the project, he added: ôIt is a sci-fi concept which reimagines the future of libraries as interactive spaces that engage visitors through multisensory forms of storytelling. It seeks to embed human stories within a much grander narrative, which includes the birth of our planet and the evolution of all life forms. The project is an immersive storytelling experience that visualises different cultural backgrounds across past, present, and future, expanding the concept of the library into a cross-cultural concept of knowledge transfer through VR rooms.ö He added that the 'library' part of the installation is conceived as a living organism, designed and programmed to be a kind of embodiment of knowledge that introduces itself to visitors personally before inviting them to explore its house. The project also includes a QR code game, 3D-printed objects, audio-visual works. While citizens can experience this futuristic concept free of cost, pre-registration is mandatory through Ticket Khidkee website. Puppeteer Gunduraju from Karnataka will showcase a shadow puppetry exhibition and narrate stories based on 'Samudra Manthana' during the inauguration on September 24.
80
The EU granted the winner city of Zugdidi up to 300,000 to implement its Cultural Development Strategy within the EU4Culture project grants call.

The official award ceremony took place on the 19th of September at 4 PM (Tbilisi time), at Dadiani Palaces History and Architectural Museum, in Zugdidi. Among the guests of honour invited to the award ceremony were representatives of the Delegation of the European Union to Georgia, the citys mayor and EU4Culture project representatives.

Zugdidi, Kutaisi and Poti received a 30,000 EU grant to promote cultural development and prepare Cultural Development Strategies for their cities. International and local experts evaluated the Cultural Development Strategies, and the project consortium made the final decision and identified the winning city according to pre-set criteria. The winner, city-Zugdidi, received additional funding up to 300,000 to implement Its Cultural Development Strategy. The project will offer all three cities capacity-building and training programmes tailored to their needs.

We are pleased that with the EU support, for the first time, the regional city of Georgia Zugdidi will implement the comprehensive Cultural Development Strategy. This is a major opportunity for the city to animate its cultural ecosystem, boost its economic development through cultural activities and increase its regional and international visibility,. stated Catalin Gherman, Deputy Head of Cooperation at the EU Delegation to Georgia

Zugdidis 5-year cultural development strategy outlines the citys overarching and transversal cultural themes and priorities, drawing upon objectives, possibilities, and perspectives for 2022 to 2026. The city has outlined three main strategic themes and ambitions that position Zugdidi as a City of Cultural Heritage Innovation, a Creative City of Arts and Crafts and a Creative City of Gastronomy.

Culture is the source of inspiration, public awareness-raising, education and aesthetics, intellect, spirituality, economic development, and an essential prerequisite for forming a harmonious society. Caring for our cultural heritage and systematic development of contemporary art are among this citys top priorities and are crucial for the well-being of our community. The elaboration process of this Cultural Development Strategy (CDS) has no less importance. It has allowed us to consolidate views and opinions of local target and professional groups public and private sectors, public and private cultural institutions and NGOs active in the field, sectoral experts, young, emerging and independent artists, local private sector representatives, individual entrepreneurs and other interested stakeholders. Thanks to their active involvement, an open and transparent public discussion was held regarding the citys cultural needs and challenges, priority objectives, and short- and long-term goals for cultural development. stated Mamuka Tsotseria, Mayor of Zugdidi Municipality

EU4Culture is a project financed by the European Union, implemented from January 2021 to December 2024. It supports the cultural and creative sector with a particular focus on non-capital cities and towns in the Eastern Partnership (EaP) countries. EU4Culture aims to support cultures role as an engine for growth and social development across the region; The project is implemented by Goethe-institut (lead), Czech Centres, Danish Cultural Institute and Institut Franais de Gorgie.
81
Re-imagining the future of libraries, Goethe-institut/Max Mueller Bhavan on Thursday launched a virtual reality (VR) installation - Infinity Library - that displays multi-sensory forms of storytelling through interaction with multimedia art, providing an alternative to the traditional idea that libraries are only limited to physical spaces with books to exchange knowledge. The Infinite Library is a travelling library that will make its next stops to Chennai and Pune after wrapping up from Kolkata on Sunday.Director of the Infinity Library, Mika Johnson, explained his idea behind the project. "Through the VR installation, I wanted to remind people that libraries as a space for knowledge exchange mean much more than just a place for books. The history of libraries vastly predates the origin of physical books, which means that alternate forms of libraries have once existed at various points and places. At a time when there has been a persistent attack on various knowledge systems across the world, I thought it was important to represent an alternate knowledge system," he said. The theme of the project is the story of the birth of Planet Earth and the evolution of life forms. Through the VR headset, which covers the eyes for an immersive 3D experience, visitors discover different settings that depict various stages of the Earth's creation. The project comprising the work of narrators, puppeteers, VR experts, historians, voice artists and multimedia artists took over two years to complete. A German teacher said, "The last time we had a VR installation was in 2019, when Johnson opened a VR representation of 'The Metamorphosis' by Franz Kafka. Both the projects, organised by Goethe-institut, have been the only VR experiences brought to the citizens of Kolkata." A spokesperson at Goethe-institut agreed that VR has infinite scopes for expansion. "Although the main market for VR remains in the gaming sector, it is quickly being adopted into various fields like medicine, nursing and education. One concern is how to mobilise all the resources required for expansion. We want to consider how to best utilise our physical library space to deliver the best VR experiences in the future," said the spokesperson. Project coordinator Aarushi Khanna said, "We have already been to New Delhi and Dhaka among other places. We plan for the library to visit our Goethe-instituts in Pakistan and Iran before heading to our European centres."
82
Culture

Topic:

Culture

EaP Countries:

Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Georgia, Republic of Moldova, Ukraine

Project Status:

Ongoing

Start Date:

01.01.2021

End Date:

31.12.2024

Implementing Organisation:

Goethe-institut

Funding by the EU:

7 850 000.
83
The topic of diversity within gaming and eSports has become an increasingly significant one over the past several years. The gaming industry has grown exponentially over the past decade with a global market estimated to be worth U.S.$135 billion in 2018. (https://www.statista.com/statistics/246892/value-of-the-video-game-market-in-the-us/#:~:text=In%202022%2C%20the%20video%20game,with%2085.86%20billion%20U.S.%20dollars) According to Statista, the video game market size in the U.S. alone was calculated to be worth more than U.S.$95 billion in 2022, eclipsing the previous record high of U.S.$86.5 billion for 2021.

However, this financial promise is coupled with the fact that marginalised groups continually face a lack of representation, both within the medium and the industry itself. Recently, (https://www.goethe.de/ins/za/en/kul/lgh/egc.html) #EveryGamerCounts - an initiative by the Goethe-institut Johannesburg - was introduced with the intention of promoting diversity and equality in the gaming industry.<br />

Challenges

The gaming industry poses multiple overlooked challenges aside from representation. According to Sylvia "QueenArrow" Gathoni, an eSports athlete and Content Creator for gaming organisation UYU, one of these was accessibility to peripherals required to compete in fighting game tournaments. "Starting out, I didn't even have a console," Gathoni said, adding that this was made more difficult due to being a student and the financial constraints that accompany the role.

Gathoni also voiced the that being a women in the largely male-dominated fighting game community (FGC) was another hurdle that needed to be overcome, one that may have been easier if additional representation among women was made possible due to the support that would bring, particularly at the beginning of her professional gaming career. "Having someone who understood those struggles would have been a huge help, like someone I could come to for advice," Gathoni said.

Poor internet infrastructure was something Gathoni felt also needed to be addressed. This is an issue that the industry appears to be addressing with popular shooter titles like Counter Strike: Global Offensive and Halo: Infinite bother offering local South African servers to help reduce latency and ping for local players, (https://mybroadband.co.za/news/gaming/446102-these-top-games-have-servers-in-south-africa.html) according to MyBroadband.

Content creators face their own set of challenges as well, according to Tiana "PandaTi" Davids, a "Let's Play" Content Creator for gaming organisation NiBBLE eSports. System requirements - relating to the recommended or minimum hardware necessary - for PC games was one example. Similarly to Gathoni, Davids hoped for a better support structure for those discovering gaming to be able to call on, recalling her own trouble learning about the industry at the start of her career when none of her friends then were familiar with it.

For Neo Sibeko, editor of TheOverclocker Magazine and PC hardware enthusiast, access to hardware is paramount. Sibeko related this to his own history and background of learning about PC hardware. "In my entire career, I'm still the only black person that does hardware," said Sibeko whose access to PC components began in his childhood at a time when no other children in his neighbourhood did. "You can imagine how many more people would be in this industry, particularly in my environment if they just had access to it," Sibeko said.

He added that, going forward, he hoped that to see old hardware be made available to communities that don't typically have access to such technology as 10-year-old video games would still be able to run on 10-year-old hardware. "You can always use hardware, it doesn't matter how old it is," Sibeko said, adding: "It's just puzzling to see it disappear into the ether."

(https://allafrica.com/stories/202109140845.html) According to AllAfrica InfoWire, Sibeko's concerns are part of a larger problem facing the continent and its access to technology at large. Multiple reasons are cited with education, outdated government policies and corruption among them. Gathoni's concerns of poor infrastructure were also factored in and substantiated with the additional difficulty of the lack of access to electricity to many rural areas across the continent.

Limpho Moeti - Business Developer for the Johannesburg-based games studio, Nyamakop - echoed Davids and Sibeko's calls for better access and support, adding that the knowledge of the roles required of those who wish to work in the gaming industry also needs to be made more apparent. "Having the support of a studio and spaces that can help you grow can improve your knowledge," Moetio said.

Missing opportunities

By not solving accessibility and inclusivity, is it possible that the gaming industry is missing out on cultural and economic opportunities? (https://techcrunch.com/2021/11/23/report-shows-accessibility-in-gaming-is-both-challenge-and-opportunity/?guccounter=1&guce_referrer=aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuZ29vZ2xlLmNvLnphLw&guce_referrer_sig=AQAAACmsO1_mdkFBLWT6ybeFMtZoOTfSe-fb1_GjIVSjaoTCcVrDAIs69PBm5jSxxj1Wistkxg4QxNAWCztKOdvvPaM-17UXtjKGQRl9qEa7FkdENcKhPZZcBWbfK0u7Rhj3iFQkcI2L71JvwCRiwwb1NQZBdj2bnucB_Adyy_R2ff1P) According to TechCrunch, accessibility is both a challenge and an opportunity.

This is according to (https://www.scope.org.uk/campaigns/research-policy/accessibility-in-gaming/#Barriers-faced-by-disabled-gamers) a report by Scope, a disability equality charity in England and Wales, which found that, based on the needs and habits of disabled gamers in the UK, millions face regular difficulties over how they may enjoy or buy games. The report wrote: "According to Accenture's - a firm specialising in information technology services and consulting - analysis of the Disability Equality Index, companies that prioritise digital inclusion are twice as likely to have higher shareholder returns, achieve 28% higher revenue, and see a 30% better performance in economic profit margins."

For Gathoni, lack of opportunity for African gamers to compete at a global level is another missing opportunity the industry has to address in a meaningful way. "By not competing on the world stage, we're not having the opportunity to tell our stories or our unique lived experiences and if we don't do that, the rest of the world will continue to have its assumptions about our region," Gathoni said.

This is a concern for many African eSports players, going as far back as several years. In 2017, (https://www.vice.com/en/article/5994g8/african-esports-are-ready-to-explode-but-video-game-publishers-are-holding-them-back) an article by Vice revealed that while the eSports industry has continued to grow in scope, African players were still marginalised.

The lack of African players at major tournaments for popular online battle arena video game Dota 2 and shooter tile Overwatch during their 2017 iterations was, according to Vice's Jacob Kleinman, not due to a lack of skill but due to the continent's lack of game-specific servers run by major publishers like Activision Blizzard, Valve and Riot Games.

"Sometimes ping is an advantage," said Davids in relation to Africa's lack of video game servers. "You want to play these games competitively or even if you just want to have a good time with your friends but there will be these things that hold you back." Davids pointed to African streamers - video content creators on popular platforms like Twitch and YouTube - being targeted by international viewers for having poor latency, a problem completely out of their control. "It's not our fault our ping is bad but we get excluded," Davids said.

For Moeti, lack of opportunity also extends to the continent's capacity to produce video games itself. "What frustrates me the most is that, through these structural barriers and biases - unconscious or not - we end up in a space where we are unable to fully grow and we end up having less cool things." For Moeti, this concern comes along with the fact that she works as a producer and business developer at Nyamakop developing African-inspired video games. The independent studio has produced (https://semblance-game.com/) Semblance, a two-dimensional platform and traversal game available on the Nintendo Switch and PC.

Africa's talent for game development extends to Cameroon as well where (https://allafrica.com/stories/201601290938.html) Kiro'o Games produced Aurion: Legacy of the Kori-Odan, an action/role-playing game based on African myths and folklore. The studio was founded by Madiba Olivier who used his passion for gaming to create Central Africa's first video game studio. The studio's opportunity to tell African stories places it in a unique position as storytelling for the continent via an interactive medium is relatively limited compared to those in Europe, Japan and the U.S. Sibeko made note of this. "With this sort of access, you're almost funneling the experiences that people can have. Growing up, most of the games I experienced were from a Caucasian male's perspective. Even the people I ended up relating to, particularly in first-person games, I ended up embodying a white guy, which is not who I am," said Sibeko. "That in itself is not a problem, but it does curtail the kind of stories you can tell," he added.

Sibeko's experiences fall in line with (https://diamondlobby.com/geeky-stuff/diversity-in-gaming/) research conducted by video game website Diamond Lobby. The site compiled over 100 games released between 2017 and 2021, all of which were bestsellers and produced by major publishers including Activision, Ubisoft and Electronic Arts. It found that 79.2% of the main protagonists were male while 20.8% were female. Along with this, 54.2% of main characters were Caucasian while 8.3% of characters were non-white ethnicities.

Davids voiced her hope that a greater level of diversity - whether among studios themselves, the games they produce, visibility of streamers - would become more apparent by greater dissemination of knowledge to those largely inexperienced with the gaming industry. "I didn't know this was something I could get into so I think that letting people know they can actually do this can come from it," she said.

Davids extended this hope to the elimination of stereotypes that place gamers in boxes based on the titles they play, like enjoying The Sims should not be regarded as one enjoying a "girl's game". "You see the horror stories of how people are treated in the gaming space because of their interest ... People should just do what makes them happy and learn that it doesn't matter because you're just having fun," Davids said.
84
A performance-installation conceptualised, written and choreographed by Annie Khoury will take place at Goethe-institut on Thursday and Friday evenings. Performed by Khoury herself and Panagiotis Tofi, Don't Forget to Water the Plants is ready to welcome audiences.

Mentored by the well-known Cypriot dancer, artist and choreographer Fotis Nikolaou, the performance comes together to bring abstract concepts into real life. Describing the performance-installation, the organisers say: "Two bodies, like a gardening experiment, are enclosed in a transparent structure. The audience watches them as they grow, fade and re-emerge, attempting to communicate and establish mutual ground. Following a bidirectional path towards earth's depths and towards the light, sometimes a word is revealed, a silence and warm air. Grounds forming, touches deforming and thoughts levitating around like unknown objects, ready to fall and hit our heads. The site transforms into fertile flatlands, firing ranges, to heavy earth, that still blossoms.

"Surrounding and taking care of it with their attention," they conclude, "the audience inevitably converts the site to their own, common garden. Senses, memories and instincts become the fertilizer for an experience deeply personal, yet widely universal. Don't Forget to Water the Plants is, after all, a reminder to breathe. And take care --take care of something together."
85
An immersive VR installation titled 'The Infinite Library' has begun at the Drik Studio premise, located in house 16, Sukrabad, Panthapath, Dhaka. Goethe-institut Bangladesh, in partnership with The Tech Academy (TTA) jointly organising this exceptional VR installation.

Dr Kirsten Hackenbroch, Director of Goethe-institut Bangladesh, in her welcoming speech said, 'The Infinite Library uses an immersive VR to explore the past, present and future of knowledge, broadening our ideas of 'libraries'. The Tech Academy with their approach of gamified education and a team of tech savvy and creative volunteers are a wonderful partner to bring this globally travelling project to Bangladesh.'

Thanking Goethe-institut Bangladesh for the collaboration, Founder and CEO of Tech Academy, Shams Jaber said that Virtual Reality is one of the technologies with the highest projected potential for growth and this event aims at showing our youth what libraries in the future may look like with the advent of VR. He's excited about the impact this event will have on the mind of the participants in how they imagine their future.

Expressing his optimism, creative director of The Infinite Library and a multimedia artist by profession Mika Johnson said, that The Infinite Library is an example of how we can use new technologies, such as virtual reality, to share stories in ways that transport us to different places or times, through simulations that allow us to touch and interact with various knowledge systems.'

Inaugurating the VR event, filmmaker and freelance media and communications professional Dina Hossain said 'The virtual library exhibition shows us the possibilities of new ways of exploring knowledge, learning through experience and game playing. The Tech Academy is a perfect partner for the exhibition as it has been exploring ways of making learning fun since it was founded. When children learn by problem solving, without fear of failing that new innovations can happen.'

The installation will remain open for visitors until September 14, every day from 3 pm to 8 pm.

The Infinite Library is not brimming with books. Nor is it a building. Nor is it reminiscent of anything that reminds one of a traditional library. It is an experience that takes place inside a virtual cave, with access to small chambers that double as portals, or micro worlds, that allow you to travel in time. Beneath the cave flows a subterranean river that connects all the chambers, like the nodes of rhizome roots that branch out horizontally, all deep within the womb of the Earth. Each node in turn has its own centre or seed, which is ready to grow to the surface via a sinkhole, should you activate the knowledge within. The unity of these systems of knowledge, along with culture and nature, is at the core of this project. It is the library's guiding metaphor. From the star to the stone, there is no above or below in The Infinite Library. There is only knowledge in each corner where we seek to discover and understand it.

The Infinite Library is a traveling installation produced by the Goethe-institut / Max Mueller Bhavan New Delhi that reimagines the future of libraries as interactive spaces that engage visitors through multisensory forms of storytelling. It seeks to embed human stories within a much grander narrative, one which includes the birth of our planet and the evolution of all life forms.

The 'Library' part of the installation is conceived as a living organism, a kind of embodiment of knowledge that introduces itself to visitors personally before inviting them to explore its house. This includes a QR code game, holograms, 3D-printed objects, audio-visual works, and the project's central piece: a vast VR library set in a cave. The project is an immersive storytelling experience that visualizes different cultural backgrounds across past, present, and future, expanding the concept of the library into a cross-cultural concept of knowledge transfer through VR rooms.

Within this virtual space, The Infinite Library hosts smaller sub-libraries, all of which are connected by nature. Each VR room introduces one knowledge system dedicated to South Indian Puppetry, European Alchemy, and Polynesian Navigation from around the world.
86
The Goethe-institut, through the 'Schools Go Green with Goethe' project is funding nine schools in Namibia to execute projects on wildlife conservation, environmental awareness, and ecological sustainability.

Schools Go Green with Goethe is a pilot school environmental awareness project in Namibia.

Participating schools are (in alphabetical order): Etosha Secondary School, Private School Swakopmund, Pro-Ed Academy, Rocky Crest High School, St. Paul's College, Wild Kids Academy, Windhoek Gymnasium, Windhoek High School, and Windhoek International School.

The nine schools were selected with the idea that their environmental club's activity for 2022 would be funded by Goethe-institut and developed and monitored by a so-called "tree ranger".

These tree rangers are graduates of NUST's (the Namibian University of Science and Technology) Natural Resources Management, thus young environmental activists and professionals that could peer-educate the even younger school-going generation, while themselves being under the tutelage of Eloolo Permaculture Initiative, a Namibian non-profit organization engaging in environmental awareness and activism.

The project's outcome will be presented at an exhibition at Goethe-institut Namibia on Saturday, 17 September, at 3 pm.

Posted by Donald Matthys.
87
 Award procedure for the procurement and introduction of a digital patient file for the center for dental, oral and maxillofacial medicine (Carolinum) at the Johann Wolfgang Goethe University in Frankfurt am Main

The new dental information system to be established should be found with this tender. it must be used across the board in all areas of dental work and must be deeply integrated. the system software must have all future-oriented interfaces such as hl7; dicom; financial accounting etc. as well as the master patient index (mpi) functionality and ihe conformity. the details can be found in the service description.The new dental information system to be established should be found with this tender. it must be used across the board in all areas of dental work and must be deeply integrated. the system software must have all future-oriented interfaces such as hl7; dicom; financial accounting etc. as well as the master patient index (mpi) functionality and ihe conformity. the details can be found in the service description.

Major organization : CAROLINUM ZAHNRZTLICHES UNIVERSITTS- INSTITUT GGMBH DER JOHANN WOLFGANG GOETHE-UNIVERSITT FRANKFURT AM MAIN

Address : Theodor-Stern-Kai 7

Country :Germany

Email : Clara.Schmitz@twobirds.com

Url : https://www.kgu.de/einrichtungen/kliniken/carolinum-zahnaerztliches-universitaets-institut-ggmbh

Tender notice number : 473397-2022

Notice type : Tender Notice.
88
Goethe-institut has set up a Repair Caf to create a community space where repairers, volunteers and visitors can come together to repair old items instead of throwing them away. City's first such cafe is set up on the fourth Saturday of every month opposite the Goethe-institut's cafe, with hope to spread the culture of sustainability. Brinda Chatterjee Manna, who runs the institute's cafe said, ôSo many visitors came with a range of used items. It's avery nice initiative where people can learn a lot about sustainability while relaxing and socialising at the cafe.ö Since the first such caf was set up in Amsterdam in 2009, the initiative has spread across 2,000 locations as of 2021. The cafs are set up in locations like churches, libraries and university campuses to promote the 'Do It Yourself' message. Goethe-institut director Astrid Wege said, ôRepair Caf is a unique concept that has resonance in India and Germany. We are excited to start this initiative in Kolkata. With Repair Caf, people can bring items such as books, bags, jewellery, clothes, small electronic goods and get them repaired. This platform will also encourage people to learn how to repair certain things by themselves.ö Nandan Mall, CMD of an ewaste management company, said, ôThis is a great initiative. We would always want old products to be reused rather than recycled. I try to encourage the idea of reusing as much as possible.ö Ujan Ganguly, who runs a sustainable fashion clothing line said, ôI heard about Repair Caf from my friends and I really want to visit. .ö ôThe experience was great. The mechanics are experts in their respective fields,ö said visitor Sudipta Sur. Electronic and electrical repair expert Gautam Mondol added, ôI really enjoy being a part of this. The best part is to encourage others to recycle and repurpose items.
89
A National Award-winning film this year has explored the untold story of same-sex love between rescued trafficked girls at a shelter home in Kolkata. Directed by Samarth Mahajan and edited by Anadi Athaley, 'Borderlands' (2021) won the National Award for best editing in the non-feature films category.Mahajan's film - made in Bengali, Hindi, Nepali, Manipuri and Punjabi - dives into the stories of six characters whose lives have been uprooted by lines separating nations. Among these is the story of Noor (named changed), a Bangladeshi trafficked girl the film unit interviewed in a Kolkata shelter home in 2019. "We were reading journals and academic papers about the complications that happen during the repatriation process in prisons and shelter homes. Author Rimple Mehta wrote a research paper about how same-sex attraction becomes common in confined spaces," the director said.An internet search led Mahajan to Sanlaap's shelter home in Kolkata. Sanlaap secretary Tapati Bhowmick said, "Currently, there are 56 girls in our shelter home. Among them, 5%-6% openly indulge in same-sex relationships. There are others who hide it. This is the first time I have seen a documentary that explores this subject without labelling it taboo."Kolkata's Goethe-institut/Max Mueller Bhavan will host a screening of this 67-minute film on August 31. Unlike other characters in the film, Noor's face is not shown on camera. She never mentioned this facet when Mahajan's associates, Nupur Agarwal and Joyona Medhi, interacted with her before the actual shooting. "She opened up only during the proper interview. In the film, we talk about physical and metaphorical borders. In that context, sexuality becomes an important subject. Noor said she promised her partner, who had already been repatriated, that she would never fall for anyone else," Mahajan said.Two years later, Noor has been repatriated. It is difficult to know if she met her partner. "We don't encourage or discourage, but have dialogues about sex and sexuality. We make them aware of the pros and cons," Bhowmick said.
90
tribune news networkdohaThe Language Center of Hamad Bin Khalifa University's Translation and Interpreting Institute (TII) has opened registration for its Fall 2022 language programmes, which will run from September 4 to November 9, 2022. Students can select from among 12 different languages.Classes will be held at Penrose House (LAS Building), Education City, and online. Arabic, Chinese (Mandarin), French, German - in collaboration with the Goethe-institut Gulf Region - Italian, Portuguese, Spanish, and Turkish are among the courses available to adults, children, and youth. Adults can also study Japanese, English, Korean, and Russian. Language classes at TII range from beginning (no prior knowledge) to advanced. Students with prior language knowledge may take a placement test to determine which level is appropriate for them.Classes will provide an immersive learning experience as well as an educational introduction to the culture represented by each language. Students are taught exclusively in the target language, and they will master all four communication skills: speaking, listening, reading, and writing. Highly qualified, experienced language specialists deliver course content in a number of instructional styles, while small class sizes stimulate interaction and assistance to develop speaking confidence from the first lesson.Nada Al-Mahmeed, Director at the Translation and Training Center (TTC) at TII, which is part of the College of Humanities and Social Sciences at HBKU, said: "Our immersive programs span the most widely spoken languages in the world and emphasize practical, meaningful communication to best meet the needs of our learners. With Qatar preparing to welcome visitors from across the world to the FIFA World Cup in a few months, new opportunities arise for linguistic diversity to be a bridge between cultures. On an individual level, proficiency in a foreign language can open up many academic and career opportunities." The fall courses offered by TII's Language Center further the institute's mission and language philosophy to enable learners to acquire a language in its cultural context.For more information and to enroll in one of the Language Center's courses for adults, youth, and children, please visit www.tii.qa/lc. Registration closes on September 1, 2022.
91
Humour and visual art were used to explore the ideas and constructs of masculinity at an exhibition at Goethe-institut/Max Mueller Bhavan Kolkata. The Mass-Q-Line art project, with posters, visual images, sculptures and videos, has been curated and designed by independent freelance artist Sumantra Mukherjee. The Friday opening included a rap performance by Dipak Pandey, Jyoti Sekhar Das, Minaj Khan and group. The exhibition will continue till September 1. Mass-Q-Line was part of a two-year project, called Man, Male, Masculinity, said Goethe-institut/Max Mueller Bhavan Kolkata director Astrid Wege. "Ideas of masculinity are all-pervading in society, yet masculinity is not reflected upon very much. The exhibition will invite us to look through an artist's eyes to question the existing ideals of masculinity and develop new visions," she said. Quoting gender activist Kamla Bhasin's words, "masculinity dehumanizes men", Mukherjee said the aim of the project was to explore this dehumanization aspect that had an unwelcome effect not only on non-male members of society but also on men. "The adornment of a masculine disguise led to men being constricted in appearance, activity and behaviour," said the artist. One of the posters has an image of a man caring for a child. Mukherjee said, "This character, 'ManLee', emphasizes the emotional aspect of men and their role in domestic life. He stands for a modern man, not afraid of not being macho, taking pride in being an evolved being." The exhibition is an outcome of a one-and-a-half-year-long art project, which researched the concept of masculinity as it has existed in films, commercials, social conversations and family structures. It tried to start a discourse on stereotypical identities and gender bias hrough graffiti.
92
The Scientific Society Swakopmund (SSS) successfully completed a six-month project, "Sustaining the SSS" financed through the International Relief Fund for around N$500,000.

This project entailed three sub-projects: "Swakopmund Museum: The Alternative Classroom", "Historical Newspapers Digitisation" and "Putting the Sam Cohen Library Catalogue Online".

The International Relief Fund is an initiative of the Goethe-institut, the German Foreign Office, and other stakeholders to alleviate the acute crisis in the arts and culture during the COVID-19 pandemic.

Support for cultural and educational organisations in many countries is an important contribution to safeguarding cultural infrastructure and artistic freedom, social diversity, and critical discourse.

As with many cultural non-profit organisations worldwide, the SSS sustained a hard blow due to the COVID-19 pandemic, which up to today results in decreased income through a lower number of visitors and lower spending in the Swakopmund Museum and the Sam Cohen Library and Archives.

These two entities belong to the SSS and are important sources of income. The International Relief Fund (IRS) greatly supported the SSS by funding towards salaries and thus retaining important staff, increasing the collaboration of the museum with local schools (Alternative Classroom project), digitizing historical newspapers, thereby safeguarding them as well as making parts of these copies keyword-searchable PDF-files and by sharing a part of the library and archive catalog online, therefore increasing the national and international reach and thus the income base of the Sam Cohen Library.

1st Subproject Alternative Classroom

Working together with the Director of the Ministry of Education, Arts and Culture, Erongo Region, local schools were involved in creating a curriculum for a day of school in the Swakopmund Museum. The "Alternative Classroom Handbook for Grades 1 and 2" was one of the outputs that can be used by visiting school groups. The project's aims to motivate and enable teachers and learners were achieved. Due to the success of the project, the Swakopmund Museum also decided to create an extra membership category for educational institutions in order to support the educational sector in Namibia.

2nd Subproject: Newspaper Digitisation

Microfiche copies of historical newspapers from former German South West Africa and South West Africa were acquired from the National Archives in South Africa. The IRF-Funding was used to purchase digital copies of these. Scans were processed and through optical character recognition (OCR) procedure, made keyword-searchable.

In total 15,330 historical newspaper editions were run through the OCR program, while some 20,000 remain outstanding. The newspapers available are for example the "Swakopmunder Zeitung", "Der Sudwestbote" (1903-1915), "Luderitzbuchter Zeitung", "Keetmanshooper Zeitung", "South West Times", "Swakopmunder Echo" etc.

The digitized historical newspapers are now safeguarded in the Sam Cohen Library and protected from loss, theft, natural disasters, and natural deterioration that old newspapers are subject to, especially with physical handling.

3rd Subproject: Online Library Catalogue (PPO)

Money was made available through the IRF to share 10,000 objects from the PastPerfect Program used to catalog items of the Scientific Society Swakopmund. These include a library, archive, photos, and Museum items. Items to share online were selected mainly according to the uniqueness of the source of information and the popular demand for information from the public.

The Past Perfect Online database (https://swakop.pastperfectonline.com/) provides searchable access to parts of the collections of the SSS. The collections are organised into catalogs that allow you to search and view a part of the extensive library, special collections, and photographs.

The projects funded through the International Relief Fund, therefore, have been only the start of enabling the SSS to contribute even more to the local development of Swakopmund, in particular in the area of education. This was only possible through the support of the International Relief Fund of the Goethe-institut Namibia.
93
payment connection webshop Goethe-instituts / e-payment services

The subject of the call for tenders are framework agreements for payment services in the web shop of the Goethe-institut in 89 countries. a detailed description of the required service can be found in appendix b.1 "service description".The aim of this tender is to - find one or more payment service providers - to provide a range of payment types in the countries in which the Goethe-institut sells its products, which covers the country-specific, local payment types customary in e-commerce o that enables a customer payment in the local currency and, if possible, a payout in the local currency ando that can be used by the Goethe-institut. if the use of the respective payment type offer requires a local legal branch and the local Goethe-institut meets the necessary requirements from the point of view of the payment service provider not fulfilled, the payment service provider should use a suitable solution (e.G. via the merchant-of-record model) to make the range of payment types available to the Goethe-institut. each country in which the Goethe-institut sells its products represents a lot; the tender therefore consists of 89 lots. some lots are combined into two main lot groups. bidders must submit a bid for one of these two main lot groups, i.E. one bid for each country lot within one of these main lot groups. main lot group 1 consists of the following countries: - germany - usa - spain - france - italy - great britain - australia - netherlands - portugal - polandthe aim of this tender is to - find one or more payment service providers - to provide a range of payment types in the countries in which the Goethe-institut sells its products, which covers the country-specific, local payment types customary in e-commerce o that enables a customer payment in the local currency and, if possible, a payout in the local currency ando that can be used by the Goethe-institut. if the use of the respective payment type offer requires a local legal branch and the local Goethe-institut meets the necessary requirements from the point of view of the payment service provider not fulfilled, then the payment service provider should use a suitable solution (e.G. via the merchant-of-record model) to make the range of payment types available to the Goethe-institut. each country in which the Goethe-institut sells its products represents a lot; the tender therefore consists of 89 lots. some lots are combined into two main lot groups. bidders must submit a bid for one of these two main lot groups, i.E. one bid for each country lot within one of these main lot groups. main lot group 2 consists of the countries: - brazil - mexico - argentina - colombia

Major organization : Goethe-institut E.V. - ZENTRALE

Address : oskar-von-miller-ring 18

Country :Germany

Email : Annette.Gryschka@goethe.de

Tender notice number : 414440-2022

Notice type : Tender Notice

Open date : 2022-09-05.
94
payment connection webshop Goethe-instituts / e-payment services

The subject of the call for tenders are framework agreements for payment services in the web shop of the Goethe-institut in 89 countries. a detailed description of the required service can be found in appendix b.1 "service description".The aim of this tender is to - find one or more payment service providers - to provide a range of payment types in the countries in which the Goethe-institut sells its products, which covers the country-specific, local payment types customary in e-commerce o that enables a customer payment in the local currency and, if possible, a payout in the local currency ando that can be used by the Goethe-institut. if the use of the respective payment type offer requires a local legal branch and the local Goethe-institut meets the necessary requirements from the point of view of the payment service provider not fulfilled, the payment service provider should use a suitable solution (e.G. via the merchant-of-record model) to make the range of payment types available to the Goethe-institut. each country in which the Goethe-institut sells its products represents a lot; the tender therefore consists of 89 lots. some lots are combined into two main lot groups. bidders must submit a bid for one of these two main lot groups, i.E. one bid for each country lot within one of these main lot groups. main lot group 1 consists of the following countries: - germany - usa - spain - france - italy - great britain - australia - netherlands - portugal - polandthe aim of this tender is to - find one or more payment service providers - to provide a range of payment types in the countries in which the Goethe-institut sells its products, which covers the country-specific, local payment types customary in e-commerce o that enables a customer payment in the local currency and, if possible, a payout in the local currency ando that can be used by the Goethe-institut. if the use of the respective payment type offer requires a local legal branch and the local Goethe-institut meets the necessary requirements from the point of view of the payment service provider not fulfilled, then the payment service provider should use a suitable solution (e.G. via the merchant-of-record model) to make the range of payment types available to the Goethe-institut. each country in which the Goethe-institut sells its products represents a lot; the tender therefore consists of 89 lots. some lots are combined into two main lot groups. bidders must submit a bid for one of these two main lot groups, i.E. one bid for each country lot within one of these main lot groups. main lot group 2 consists of the countries: - brazil - mexico - argentina - colombia

Major organization : Goethe-institut E.V. - ZENTRALE

Address : Oskar-von-Miller-Ring 18

Country :Germany

Email : Annette.Gryschka@goethe.de

Url : www.goethe.de

Tender notice number : 414440-2022

Notice type : Tender Notice

Open date : 2022-08-29

Tender documents : T476138292.html

© 2022 Al Bawaba (Albawaba.com) Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc. ( Syndigate.info ).
95
With four conversation tables, ten workshops, a visual concert and audiovisual projections, the meeting will bring together more than 20 agents of culture, science and the arts, to reflect on the social, cultural and scientific transformations that Chile is currently facing . All activities will be carried out free of charge in the Caln forest-museum, located in the surroundings of the National Astronomical Observatory of the University of Chile.

With the aim of opening a space for dialogue, where the current production of Chilean artists and researchers related to science and technology is reflected, the Chilean Corporation of Video and Electronic Arts (CChV), will carry out the next 29, 30 and 31 July the sixth edition of the Meeting of Art, Science and Digital Culture, entitled Ubiquitous Connections.

Financed by the National Fund for Cultural Development and the Arts and the Temporary Emergency Fund of the Ministry of Culture, Arts and Heritage and with the support of the Goethe-institut and the Astronomy Department of the University of Chile this new edition It is carried out under the curatorship of the writer and poet Felipe Cussen and the cultural manager Carolina Arvalo, and aims to link works and actions that act as connection thresholds towards interspecies, multi-temporal and even quantum networks.

The pandemic forced an expansion and acceleration of the role of digital technologies to enable remote communication. At the beginning we felt surprised by the magical fact of conversing or collaborating from distant places, but soon we began to notice, too, the gaps, the failures and the limits of media that became a barrier for the bodies and we began to long for other more direct and profound forms of contact, explain both researchers in the text of the meeting.

The program includes four conversation tables, a visual concert and a projection of audiovisual works. Some of these activities will be broadcast on the Corporation's YouTube channel from the summit of Cerro Caln, in the surroundings of the National Astronomical Observatory (Camino El observatorio 1515, Las Condes) of the Astronomy Department of the University of Chile. It is in this place that since 2020, the Corporation has been developing the forest-museum project, a museum project that houses 12 works by various national and international artists in the open air, inspired by the relationship between art, science and nature.

The agenda is free and to attend you just have to register on the meeting's website.

Interstellar messages | Friday, July 29, from 11:00 a.m.

This day will be dedicated to reflecting on the way in which different technologies (old and new) allow us to establish communication in different directions towards the sky, either to send messages or to detect, translate and receive them. We will combine the scientific perspective from the experience of working at the observatory, with the more poetic and utopian perspective of these artistic projects, to see what points in common can be intertwined.

They will participate in the table of this day: Patricio Rojo, astronomer of the University of Chile; Mauricio Lacrampette, architect and media artist; Santiago Barcaza, poet and musician; Julios Carrasco, musician and civil engineer; and Felipe Cussen, poet and writer, who will moderate the conversation.

Inter-kingdom dialogues | Saturday, July 30, from 11:00 a.m.

This day revolves around the biological, technological, material and energetic relationships between different beings and elements. We will explore the links of projects that dialogue with other sensitive bodies, their symbiosis and complexities, and that allow us to reflect again on the scope of artistic creation beyond human limits.

Participants at the table: Elisa Balmaceda, artist and educator; Toms Egaa, molecular biotechnology engineer; the cultural corporation Actos Sinestsicos, and Valentina Bulo, doctor of philosophy who will moderate the talk.

Ancient technologies | Sunday, July 31, from 11:00 a.m.

How can we access our Amerindian aesthetic heritage? What knowledges host the ancient practices and how do their different cultural visions intersect? How can they be related or contrasted with current technologies and offer different forms of relationship with our environment? During this day we will link again with other knowledge and imaginary temporalities.

Participating in the first table: the artists Natalia Matzner and Elas Santis, the designer and doctor in architecture Pablo Hermansenn, and the writer Felipe Cussen as moderator.

Participating in the second talk: Francisca Gili, artist and master's degree in Anthropology; Daniela Contreras, textile artist; Paola Gonzlez Carvajal, archaeologist and indigenous lawyer; and Carolina Arvalo, curator, researcher and cultural manager, who will moderate the table.
96
The Goethe-institut Namibia will be offering a Python Programming with Robotics Application course for young adults, which will be running for two weeks from 1 August to 11 August from 17:30 to 19:00.

The Institute said the course will be on Mondays to Thursdays for young adults 16 and older and no prior programming experience is required.

"In this course, participants will learn the basics of Python programming and will apply their newly gained skills to program a LEGO EV3 robot to interact with its environment," they added.

The Goethe-institut said in particular participants will learn about formal text-based programming in Python, algorithms and how to formulate a problem such that it can be solved by a computer, variables, data types and sequential programming, selection and loop control structures, navigate the robot on a predefined path through an obstacle course, display messages on the screen, use robot buttons for user input, perform calculations, collect and visualize data, react to sensor input and solve user defined problems.

"We encourage participants to bring their laptops and will be guided through the implementation of the required program, because a limited number of computers will be available to those who cannot bring their laptops and many activities will be done in small groups, encouraging teamwork and collaboration," they explained.

Upon completion of the course, participants will be able to solve simple and moderately complex computational problems using a Python programming environment.

"They will understand YouTube Python tutorials describing special applications and have improved their computational thinking skills and they will have practiced collaboration, problem-solving, critical thinking, and verbal presentation, all of which are essential 21st-century skills."

Python is a highly versatile programming language applied to solve both small and complex tasks. Python is used across many fields from data science to mobile app development, artificial intelligence, and machine learning. It has seen a large increase in popularity thanks to its easy-to-learn syntax and free availability.
97
Learning experience platform (lxp) for employee development

The Goethe-institut e.v. plans to use an interactive, customizable learning experience platform (lxp) as a learning portal for self-directed learning for all employees. a detailed description of the required service can be found in appendix a "service description".An interactive, customizable learning experience platform (lxp) for self-directed learning for all employees of the client, which is made available worldwide as a saas solution. the client needs a platform on which he can store his own existing content in different formats (video content, html files and links, wbts, pdfs or word documents, audio files, etc.) as well as external learning libraries and other external resources (oer) can include. In addition, compulsory training should also be offered and assigned to the employees so that the completion is verifiably documented and is comprehensible for the client.

Major organization : Goethe-institut E.V. - ZENTRALE

Address : Oskar-von-Miller-Ring 18

Country :Germany

Email : Laura.Abel@goethe.de

Url : www.goethe.de

Tender notice number : 392247-2022

Notice type : Tender Notice

Open date : 2022-08-18.
98
 framework agreement for the media supply of the libraries of the Goethe-instituts abroad

An electronic ordering platform is required for the purpose of supplying media to the libraries of the Goethe-instituts worldwide. all processes of ordering, procurement and delivery of media are to be processed and displayed via this web-based, password-protected platform. a detailed description of the required service can be found in appendix a "service description".Media supply for the libraries of the Goethe-instituts abroad: central eastern europe: bratislava, budapest, krakow, prague, riga, warsawmedia supply for the libraries of the Goethe-instituts abroad: north america (montreal, new york, mexico city, toronto)

Major organization : Goethe-institut E.V. - ZENTRALE

Address : Oskar-von-Miller-Ring 18

Country :Germany

Email : holger.moos@goethe.de

Url : www.goethe.de

Tender notice number : 391300-2022

Notice type : Tender Notice

Open date : 2022-08-17

Tender documents : T475676147.html.
99
The Goethe-institut Max Mueller Bhavan on Sunday launched an e-learning programme called Kinderuni Marathi to instil interest for science among children through Marathi language as well as facilitate learning of German language in a playful way. The institute aims to give children lessons in various topics such as humankind, nature and technology in an easy and simple manner and it will be available for free of cost.The programme was inaugurated on Sunday in the presence of Tejasvi Vartak, the deputy director and head of language department and examinations of Goethe Insitut, Andrea Walter, the South Asia regional head of the project PASCH, Vaishali Dabke, the project coordinator, and Jayashree Joshi of the Institut of Mumbai.Ten Marathi schools from Pune, including one from Bhor tehsil and the other from Gorhe Budruk village, participated in the programme. Various activities such as Taster lessons of Kinderuni, science workshops, reading of science stories in Marathi and quizzes were organised for them.
100
The Philippines, through the Climate Change Commission (CCC), has joined other international climate experts in a learning exchange program in line with Climate Policy for 2050 held in Berlin and Hamburg, Germany recently.

Upon the invitation of Germanys Foreign Federal Office and the Goethe-institut, Climate Change Commissioner Rachel Anne Herrera and seven other experts participated in the Climate Policy for 2050.

Participants from Costa Rica, Finland, Israel, Japan, Kurdistan region of Iraq, Mozambique, and Romania joined Commissioner Herrera to the roundtable discussions and meetings with German ministry units, research institutes, and universities to explore German policies toward reducing carbon emissions and achieving carbon neutrality by 2050. Germany has set ambitious targets of 80% greenhouse gas reduction by 2045 and renewable energy and energy efficiency will be the standard for investments to keep their economy competitive in a decarbonizing world.

I thank the German Government for extending the invitation to the Philippine Climate Change Commission (CCC) to this learning workshop. The relationship between Germany and Philippines remains strong and positive. We are already working on many fronts, import of exchanges and sharing of experience towards increased climate change capacities, said CCC Secretary Robert E.A. Borje. Rest assured that we will sustain this international engagement to address the existential threat of climate change and its impacts, he added.

Forging ahead on climate action, the Philippines has always taken on important leadership roles in international climate diplomacy and in crafting more effective and more equitable international climate policies. As a country most vulnerable to climate change, the Philippines can learn a great deal from Germany in a wide range of fields from transitioning from fossil fuels to renewable energy, energy efficiency, climate adaptation such as through flood protection, disaster risk reduction, and sustainability.

We hope to count on Germany as a strong partner in this particular endeavor for climate justice and equity, bound not just by our shared goals for a more sustainable future, but by our shared understanding that no nation is safe from the climate crisis until all nations are, Herrera said in a meeting with German officials.

The group was hosted by Ambassador Hinrich Thlken, Federal Foreign Office Special Advisor on International Climate and Energy Policy in a roundtable discussion on international climate efforts and partnerships, and met with Dr. Martin Wei, Head of Division KB1 Climate Protection Programme at the Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Climate Action to learn about the countrys specific policy and market-based mechanisms towards targeting net-zero emissions by 2045.

They also engaged with subject matter experts such as Dr. Oliver Richters of the Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research; energiewaechter GmbH (energy and building sector industry consultants) representatives led by Prof. Dr. Eckhart Hertszch, Professor for Sustainable Urban Neighbourhoods at the Technische Universitat Berlin; and Spreeakademie Managing Director Sebastian Zoepp, on climate risk management and socioeconomic research, renewable energy, sustainable agriculture, and just transition from coal mining in the Lusatia region.

In Hamburg, they visited the Climate Service Center (GERICS) where Dr. Peer Seipold, Head of Department, and Ph.D student Mr. Cristbal Reveco presented the extensive work of GERICS worldwide to assess the impact of climate change on private sector planning and investment. Thereafter, the group toured the Hamburg port city waterfront, together with the Ministry of Transport and Mobility Transition Agency of Roads, Bridges and Waterways (LSBG) where Mr. Jan-Moritz Mller of the Water Bodies and Flood Protection Division, Hydrology and Water Management Department presented the citys latest programs to protect against floods and storm surge.

The tour also provided more opportunity to learn about climate-resilient hydrology studies through discussions with Dr. Horst Sterr, geographer and Professor Emeritus of the Christian Albrecht University of Kiel together with his team of experts on sea level rise and flood risk management in the context of the Baltic Sea and North Sea, with aspects of nature-based solutions and information and education campaigns targeting the community.

Herrera also paid a courtesy visit to the Philippine Embassy in Berlin Charg d' Affaires Lilibeth Pono to urge continued cooperation between Germany and the Philippines in pursuit of productive exchanges on science-based climate planning and programming.
101
internet services of the Goethe-institut e.V.

Maintenance and further development of the web offer as well as support tasks. a detailed description of the required service can be found in annex part b "service description".Scope of services: - first level support of the editors for templates in cms - implementation of quality assurance of templates - testing of html prototypes - iterative testing of optimized / newly developed templates, output types, functionalities, etc. with regard to correct display on desktop, tablet and mobile - creation and maintenance of test documentation - testing of bugs and support for bug elimination - evaluating core web vitals reports and deriving recommendations for action - conducting performance tests and deriving recommendations for action - ticket processing with jira - creation of instructions and documentation - creation and rollout of templates in cms - consolidation of templates and output types - market research and advice on the use of design elements and scripts - conception and implementation of (web) seminars with template/front-end reference - creation and maintenance of websites via cms - input and updating of content per cms, e.G. articles, events, teasers, forms, newsletters, etc. - image processing - video processing - setting up and registering podcasts - market research and advice - creation of technical concepts - conception, creation and evaluation of surveys - conception and implementation of training courses and web seminarsscope of services:- cms backend administration, e.G. creating and updating text modules, configuration of applications, etc. - support in the area of it security (testing of websites and applications with common security testing tools) - implementation of manual testing of web applications and website test automation (development, maintenance, implementation and documentation of software tests) - performance and load testing - monitoring of web applications - administration of mailing lists - software e.G. creating lists, changing the configuration - first level support mailing lists, answering user requests for subscription, setting up the mailing list, etc. - programming dynamic applications including database connection - implementation support for web analysis (adjustment of tracking code, adjustment of configuration)/ (technical) support - review and reproduction of reported errors and, if necessary, creation of an error log as a basis for troubleshooting - configuration of the seo crawler, implementation of crawls for seo and quality assurance (screamingfrog) - ticket processing with jira - code management with git (bitbucket) - creation and maintenance of websites via cms- input and update of content via cms, e.G. articles, events, teasers, forms, newsletters, etc. - tests for correct display on desktop, tablet and mobile - image processing - video processing - setting up and registering podcasts - market research and advice - first level suppo

Major organization : Goethe-institut E.V. - ZENTRALE

Address : Oskar-von-Miller-Ring 18

Country :Germany.
102
The Philippines, through the Climate Change Commission (CCC), has joined other international climate experts in a learning exchange program in line with Climate Policy for 2050 held in Berlin and Hamburg, Germany recently.

Upon the invitation of Germanys Foreign Federal Office and the Goethe-institut, Climate Change Commissioner Rachel Anne Herrera and seven other experts participated in the Climate Policy for 2050.

Participants from Costa Rica, Finland, Israel, Japan, Kurdistan region of Iraq, Mozambique, and Romania joined Commissioner Herrera to the roundtable discussions and meetings with German ministry units, research institutes, and universities to explore German policies toward reducing carbon emissions and achieving carbon neutrality by 2050. Germany has set ambitious targets of 80% greenhouse gas reduction by 2045 and renewable energy and energy efficiency will be the standard for investments to keep their economy competitive in a decarbonizing world.

I thank the German Government for extending the invitation to the Philippine Climate Change Commission (CCC) to this learning workshop. The relationship between Germany and Philippines remains strong and positive. We are already working on many fronts, import of exchanges and sharing of experience towards increased climate change capacities, said CCC Secretary Robert E.A. Borje. Rest assured that we will sustain this international engagement to address the existential threat of climate change and its impacts, he added.

Forging ahead on climate action, the Philippines has always taken on important leadership roles in international climate diplomacy and in crafting more effective and more equitable international climate policies. As a country most vulnerable to climate change, the Philippines can learn a great deal from Germany in a wide range of fields from transitioning from fossil fuels to renewable energy, energy efficiency, climate adaptation such as through flood protection, disaster risk reduction, and sustainability.

We hope to count on Germany as a strong partner in this particular endeavor for climate justice and equity, bound not just by our shared goals for a more sustainable future, but by our shared understanding that no nation is safe from the climate crisis until all nations are, Herrera said in a meeting with German officials.

The group was hosted by Ambassador Hinrich Thlken, Federal Foreign Office Special Advisor on International Climate and Energy Policy in a roundtable discussion on international climate efforts and partnerships, and met with Dr. Martin Wei, Head of Division KB1 Climate Protection Programme at the Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Climate Action to learn about the countrys specific policy and market-based mechanisms towards targeting net-zero emissions by 2045.

They also engaged with subject matter experts such as Dr. Oliver Richters of the Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research; energiewaechter GmbH (energy and building sector industry consultants) representatives led by Prof. Dr. Eckhart Hertszch, Professor for Sustainable Urban Neighbourhoods at the Technische Universitat Berlin; and Spreeakademie Managing Director Sebastian Zoepp, on climate risk management and socioeconomic research, renewable energy, sustainable agriculture, and just transition from coal mining in the Lusatia region.

In Hamburg, they visited the Climate Service Center (GERICS) where Dr. Peer Seipold, Head of Department, and Ph.D student Mr. Cristbal Reveco presented the extensive work of GERICS worldwide to assess the impact of climate change on private sector planning and investment. Thereafter, the group toured the Hamburg port city waterfront, together with the Ministry of Transport and Mobility Transition Agency of Roads, Bridges and Waterways (LSBG) where Mr. Jan-Moritz Mller of the Water Bodies and Flood Protection Division, Hydrology and Water Management Department presented the citys latest programs to protect against floods and storm surge.

The tour also provided more opportunity to learn about climate-resilient hydrology studies through discussions with Dr. Horst Sterr, geographer and Professor Emeritus of the Christian Albrecht University of Kiel together with his team of experts on sea level rise and flood risk management in the context of the Baltic Sea and North Sea, with aspects of nature-based solutions and information and education campaigns targeting the community.

Herrera also paid a courtesy visit to the Philippine Embassy in Berlin Charg d' Affaires Lilibeth Pono to urge continued cooperation between Germany and the Philippines in pursuit of productive exchanges on science-based climate planning and programming.
103
The Goethe-institut Max Mueller Bhavan on Sunday launched an e-learning programme called Kinderuni Marathi to instil interest for science among children through Marathi language as well as facilitate learning of German language in a playful way. The institute aims to give children lessons in various topics such as humankind, nature and technology in an easy and simple manner and it will be available for free of cost. The programme was inaugurated on Sunday in the presence of Tejasvi Vartak, the deputy director and head of language department and examinations of Goethe Insi- tut, Andrea Walter, the South Asia regional head of the project PASCH, Vaishali Dabke, the project coordinator, and Jayashree Joshi of the Institut of Mumbai. Ten Marathi schools from Pune, including one from Bhor tehsil and the other from Gorhe Budruk village, participated in the programme. Various activities such as Taster lessons of Kinderuni, science workshops, reading of science stories in Marathi and quizzes were organised for them.
104
The Goethe-institut Max Muller Bhavan here on Sunday launched an e-learning platform, called 'Kinderuni Marathi', with a view to introduce Science to children and instil interest in them for the subject through Marathi language as well as facilitate learning of German language in a fun and playful way.

This Marathi digital university aims to give the children lessons in various topics like Humanities, Nature and Technology in an easy and simple manner. It will be available free-of-cost for all children in age group of 8-12 at home or in school.

Tejasvi Vartak, deputy director and head of Language department and examinations of Goethe Insitut, Andrea Walter, South Asia Regional head of the project PASCH, Vaishali Dabke, Project coordinator, and Jayashree Joshi of the Institut, Mumbai were present during the inaugural ceremony.

Speaking after the launch of this Marathi digital university, Vikas Garad, deputy director, SCERT, said that to prepare the teachers in teaching different foreign languages to students, the State Council of Education Research and Training (SCERT) is aiming to develop a separate training programme for teachers where they can learn foreign languages with the help of institutes like Goethe and other language experts.

About 10 Marathi schools from Pune including two rural schools, one from Bhor tehsil and the other from Gorhe Budruk village, participated in the programme, during which various activities such as Taster lessons of Kinderuni, Science workshops, reading of Science stories in Marathi and quizzes were organised for them.

While giving information about this project, Vaishali Dabke said, "We are implementing this project to create interest in science among children. Various sub-topics are covered under the main topics and children will be able to learn the lessons available on this platform themselves or under the guidance of their parents at home or in school with their teachers. The special feature is that the children will also learn some German words and their pronunciation through this medium, which have been included in the lessons. This will encourage children to learn German. The children will get a badge after successful completion of their homework."

Started in 2020, initially the programme was conducted only in two languages -- German and English -- by the Insitut and it was later decided to make lessons available in Indian regional languages such as Hindi, Bengali, Marathi, Tamil and Kannada.

"The initiative received a good response from across the country and as many as 34,554 children have visited the Kinderuni website and have completed various lessons since 2020. The highest response, however, has been received from Maharashtra. Along with India, the university has been implemented in Iran, Pakistan, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka as well," added Dabke.

Published by HT Digital Content Services with permission from United News of India.
105
The subject of the provision of services is the operation of the components (it system) required for skype for business enterprise voice or teams voice. A detailed description of the required service can be found in Annex A (1) "Service description" and Annex I (1a).The Goethe-institut is strategically planning the migration of the skype for business infrastructure to teams voice (enterprise voice) and the expansion of the teams voice solution to locations that are not yet using sfb enterprise voice plants and locations sequentially. the migration should be completed by 2025 at the latest. the solution is also expanded sequentially, but according to the needs / requirements of the individual locations.

Major organization : Goethe-institut E.V. - ZENTRALE

Address : Oskar-von-Miller-Ring 18

Country :Germany

Email : thomas.buck@goethe.de

Url : www.goethe.de

Tender notice number : 379829-2022

Notice type : Tender Notice

Open date : 2022-08-12.
106
For the third consecutive year, the Goethe-institut Cyprus presents its Sommerkino -- a series of German film screenings. The programme includes five films by two of the most important contemporary German directors: Andreas Dresen and Fatih Akin. Among the films are a coming-of-age film and a film for children. The screenings will take place between July 11 and 15 in the garden and in the hall of the Goethe-institut in Nicosia.

The work of both Andreas Dresen and Fatih Akin is integral to contemporary German cinema and the arthouse scene. The films of the two German directors address a spectrum of different topics that often deal with marginalised social groups. Dresen is also known not to shy away from subjects that other filmmakers consider taboo.

Dresen, born in 1963 in Gera, is one of the most renowned contemporary German filmmakers. The director and screenwriter, who has won numerous national and international awards, takes typically unconventional perspectives to explore his characters, some of whom have links to the history of the GDR. With great sensitivity towards his characters as well as seemingly banal everyday stories, Dresen manages to paint a picture of the emotional-social situation of the Republic.

Akin, born in 1973 in Hamburg, has established himself firmly in the German directing and film scene with films such as Soul Kitchen, Head On (Gegen die Wand) and In the Fade (Aus dem Nichts) and has been awarded numerous prizes for his work.

The Sommerkino will start with Goodbye Berlin (Tschick) , Akin's award-winning adaptation of Wolfgang Herrndorf's novel Why We Took the Car (Tschick) which tells the story of two teenage misfits from Berlin who set off across eastern Germany towards Wallachia in a stolen car. Dresen's drama Grill Point (Halbe Treppe) is the story of two married couples struggling with their professional and family lives while trying to stay financially afloat until a love affair shatters their routine.

With Cloud 9 (Wolke 9) , Dresen is one of the few directors who dares to cinematically depict the world of older adults by telling the story of a married woman in her mid-60s who falls in love with another man. In the much-praised and awarded Gundermann , Dresen devotes himself to the life and oeuvre of songwriter Gerhard Gundermann, an idol of many people in the German Democratic Republic (GDR) until the rumour that he was a spy for the Stasi started to spread.

The Sommerkino concludes with the children's film The Legend of Timm Thaler or The Boy who Sold his Laughter , in which Dresen turns to the tale about a boy with an irresistible laugh who, in a life crisis, first sells his gift to the sinister Baron de Lefouet and later tries to recapture it with the support of his friends.

Sommerkino

Film screenings by two German directors. July 11-15. Goethe-institut, Nicosia. 8.15pm and/or 6.30pm. Free. German with English subtitles.
107
A growing youth population with increasing spending power and a thirst for entertainment could give music festivals a much bigger role in the continent's cultural scene. But viable business models are hard to come by, writes Leo Komminoth

Each year, a multi-generational crowd of 20,000 people "bring their fire" to the MTN Bushfire Festival in the scenic Malkerns Valley of Eswatini, where they experience an eclectic pan-African and international line-up of live music, theatre, poetry, film, dance, and visual arts.

The festival model is being replicated across the continent. South Africa is home to internationally known celebrations such as the National Arts Festival and the Cape Town International Jazz Festival which attract thousands of enthusiasts every year.

In East and West Africa, festivals in the economic giants of Kenya and Nigeria cater for a rising middle class who are prepared to spend an increasing percentage of their disposable income on events.

Meanwhile, North African countries such as Morocco and Tunisia are being marketed as key music destinations, attracting wealthy European tourists and government patronage. And outside the obvious locations, successful flagship events take place in the likes of Zimbabwe, Eswatini and Zanzibar.

"The African continent hosts hundreds of annual festivals and cultural celebrations, though only a small minority target international audiences," says Yusuf Mahmoud, Sauti za Busara festival director and chair of the Music in Africa Foundation.

The sector is increasingly attracting the interest of corporate sponsors, including telecoms and alcohol brands who are keen to market their products and services to a younger audience.

The MTN Bushfire Festival, which has been ongoing for 15 years in Eswatini, is headlined by the South African telco brand but includes partnerships with up to 70 local and international sponsors.

As Africa emerges from the pandemic and customers return to mass events, organisers say that sponsors are flocking back to the sector.

"After two years' hiatus, there was a tremendous appetite from all stakeholders to come back. We managed to sell strong brands and we have repeat sponsors buying," says Jiggs Thorne, director of the festival.


High cost of establishing events

While successful examples can be found across the continent, the industry remains an upstart compared to its established peers in Europe and North America.

The costs of establishing large events and the difficulties of attracting mass audiences in emerging markets still weigh heavily on promoters.

In many cases, single artist concerts and tours are more profitable given smaller venue, security, and catering costs. Coordinating the transportation of dozens of artists in countries where infrastructure can be rudimentary also remains a major challenge and financial burden.

"A major challenge we all face is the high cost of flights. Mobility funding is urgently required, as well as more public-private partnerships," says Mahmoud.

For this year's edition of the MTN Bushfire Festival, more money was spent on security and logistics.

"As the festival grows in numbers, so do the risks. Managing traffic flows alongside the new Covid protocols implies an organised and responsive team of medics, fire, and security," says Thorne.

Regulations concerning outdoor events in some African countries do not meet the same standards as in Europe or North America. African promoters often have to self-regulate on security matters to avoid potential incidents which could hurt a festival's reputation.

Another constraint on the growth of regional festivals is the limited profitability of initial festival instalments. According to promoters, music festivals have high running costs and typically only start making profits after three or four years.

"In our case, profits will hopefully come for the sixth edition," says Derek Debru, co-founder of the Nyege Nyege festival, the next edition of which will take place in September on the shores of the Nile in Uganda.

"You need to be strong financially to suffer the loss at the beginning. Some festivals start the first year with huge profit ambitions, but it unfortunately reflects on the quality of the event," says Debru.

The grants and loans that would usually help tide over events in Europe and the US in the difficult early years are much less common in Africa's emerging festival industry.

"When you are in a European country, where the festival culture is prorginent, you can get a variety of subventions which will help you survive the first years," adds Benjamin Lebrave, founder of the Accra-based music label Akwaaba Music.

Of course, political and economic risk also mitigates against the success of events in Africa. Mali's Festival au Desert in Timbuktu was long considered a Success for showcasing traditional Tuareg music to an international audience but was cancelled in 2017 and hasn't taken place since as a result of security concerns relating to Islamist militancy in the country.

'No two festivals are the same'

With such a diversity of events catering for different tastes and interests across dozens of markets, there is not likely to be a one-size-fits-all approach to the implementation of a flourishing music festival.

"No two festivals are the same. Each one is different, according to its programming focus, audience reach, geographic and cultural context," says Yusuf Mahmoud.

Many large-scale festivals follow the European and US model of paying large amounts to attract internationally recognised music talent, such as the Afro Nation Festival, produced by UK-based entertainment company Event Horizon, which made its debut in Ghana in 2019 with superstars Stonebwoy, Wizkid, Davido, Shatta Wale and Burna Boy among its headliners.

By contrast, the founders of the Nyege Nyege festival in Uganda have taken a different approach.

Nyege Nyege first established itself as a music label at the heart of a blossoming music scene in Uganda's capital city Kampala.


The first edition of the festival in 2015 had no headliners, but a few local artists playing a wide variety of musical styles on historical instruments and innovative machines such as Africa's first DIY modular synthesiser made by Ugandan artist and technology freak Afrorack. Nyege Nyege went for promoting the experience rather than the line-up.

"Our strategy, because the music is integrated into a wider project, is to showcase lesser-known acts," explains Derek Debru.

"In the beginning, we had a hard time convincing the government that the festival could boost the local economy: How are 500 people dancing in a forest contributing to anything?" says Debru.

However, over the years, Nyege Nyege became an essential part of the Kampala music scene and gained a considerable international reputation and its biggest crowds without booking any major stars.

"This year, for the first time, we have launched the sixth edition without announcing the line-up of artists and we never sold that many tickets," says Debru.

Programming local artists

Nyege Nyege is certainly not the first and only music festival in Africa which plays on the authenticity of African music, food, visuals, and activities to create a unique experience and attract an international audience.

Zanzibar's Sauti za Busara makes sure local musicians are the backbone of the celebration by programming at least 50% Tanzanian artists.

Giving local artists a global exposure can, in return, serve the interest of the festival organisers. Events which highlight local talent and authentic musical styles are more likely to receive government and international donor support, and may attract foreign tourists keen for a different experience from the European and US festival circuits.

International organisations such as the Alliance Frangaise, Goethe-institut and British Council, important promoters of live events in Africa, also offer support for authentic cultural events. For instance, in 2019, the Norwegian embassy in Tanzania announced it would support the core running costs of the Sauti za Busara festival to the tune of $342,000, until March 2022.

Supporting emerging acts can also build credibility and attract the stars of the future by supporting their rise to the top.

"We always hope that, later, our artists will blow up and that we will get credited for having booked them at an early stage of their careers," says Debru.

It appears to be working. Nyege Nyege's musicians play more than 200 shows across the globe every year and are growing in popularity.

"When people see our line-up, they see big names, but they are all artists from our roster," says Debru.

Economic impact

As well as providing income streams for artists and promoters, festival organisers also point to the benefits that can accrue to the wider economy from events hosting.

Local restaurants and businesses benefit from a sudden demand created by a large crowd of spectators, with many establishing themselves as vendors to cater to the event. Hotels and airlines can also expect a boost.

The Gnaoua Festival in Morocco, which welcomed more than 300,000 people in 2019, has had a significant economic impact on the port city of Essaouira. Since its creation in 1998, the city has tripled its hotel capacity, going from 145,000 to nearly 500,000 nights per year, according to Moroccan consulting firm Valyans.

The MTN Bushfire festival creates between 900 and 1200 jobs and generates approximatively $3.4m for the broader Eswatini economy every year, according to Thorne. The Nyege Nyege festival provides a a lot of vending spaces for free. "If you want to come to sell any products, from sunglasses to ice creams, you are able to do so by simply purchasing a ticket," says Debru.

Festivals have other important outcomes such as the transfer of skills and know-how, with potential repercussions on different sectors of the economy.


"By bringing key service providers outside of Eswatini, for example from South Africa, our ultimate goal is to make sure we are developing local skill sets," says Thorne.

A critical point for a festival to last is its ability to be more than the entertainment it offers by playing a valuable role in the social development of a country. For instance, MTN Bushfire festival has worked towards firmly developing a green footprint. In 2019, over 50% of waste generated during the two-day event was recycled, and a ban on single-use plastic was progressively put in place.

Capitalising on heritage

But despite the positive economic spillover and soft power impact of hosting events, many festivals still lack financial support from governments, and the Covid-19 period has been particularly challenging.

For many African countries, festivals can play a role in preserving, but also reviving, the continent's inheritance of ancient music. The challenge, for music festival promoters but also governments is to capitalise on this heritage while making it profitable.

Caption: Opposite: Festival goers at the MTN Bushfire festival in the Malkerns Valley of Eswatini.

Caption: Above: Photos of artists at the Bushfire festival by DT Photography (top) and Bram Lammers.
108
The fourth edition of Returning Sounds, held at the Goethe-institut on Friday, featured a Kolkata-based record label and audiovisual collective that brought together its sound artistes - TITO+, an audio-visual artist, Haved Jabib, an electronic music producer, Sayandeep Das (Cosvoyant), an ambient music producer and composer from Purulia, and visual artistes, Eeshani Mitra and Primal Screen - for a collective audiovisual show. Returning Sounds, a Goethe-institut initiative, focusses on unconventional and experimental music written by independent electronic music producers where they don't have to modify their art to fit a certain industry standard. During the pandemic, a lot of artistes explored different aspects of music. With the world opening to a new normal, the initiative has created an avenue for independent music producers to showcase their experiments with music. Audio-visual music is a genre where visual, sonic, project mapping, 3D animation elements and all mediums related to sound and moving images intersect. "Putting experimental music in a thinking space like a library made sense since this version has evolved from what we had to go through during the pandemic. Artistes absorb from their surroundings and turn that into art," said Varun Desai, the curator of the programme.Sripurna Sanyal, 21, a law student, was all praise for the programme. "Who could have thought that a noise gig could be presented in such a beautiful way," she said.
109
The last two years of the pandemic changed a lot of things around us and one particular change that was worth noting was the emergence of K dramas or Korean shows in Indian homes. According to Netflix, a 370 percent increase in Indian viewers for watching K-dramas on Netflix India was witnessed in 2020.From Lee Jung-Jae and Park Hae-soo's 'Squid Game'to Lee Min-Ho and Park Shin-hye starring in 'Heirs', it seems that Indians have become a big consumer of Korean entertainment. From food, beauty, travel and language, Indians are exploring everything Korean. It is this love for the K dramas that made Korean the fastest growing language in India.English, French, Korean, Spanish and German is the top five foreign languages that Indians are currently learning on the Duolingo app. Japanese, Chinese, Arabic and Italian follow.Korean is the 3rd most popular language in IndiaThe Korean wave caught onto Rimpa Gayen, a master's student, after she finished watching the popular K drama 'Boys Over Flower' suggested by her friend. "It is a very simple show yet so engaging that you cannot stop yourself from watching the next episode," says Rimpa, who watched over 20 K dramas during the lockdown period. Her dedication to Korean dramas led her to take up learning Korean. "I want to learn Korean so that I can watch K dramas without having to look at the subtitles as it's distracting. And I do not like watching the show in a translated voiceover because it spoils the essence of the character," shares Rimpa. According to a survey conducted by Duolingo, over 56 per cent of respondents said that they were influenced to learn a new language by pop culture trendsetters including movies, OTT shows, and web series. "Web shows became major inspiration mediums for our Indian users, who were inspired to learn Korean and Spanish following the release of 'Squid Games' and 'Money Heist'," says Karandeep Singh Kapany, Country Marketing Manager - India, Duolingo.Virtual classes open new doorsWhile Korean has become a popular language in India, German on the other hand is catching up. Looking at the increased demand for foreign languages, institutions like Alliance Francaise, Goethe-institut, and InKo Centre which offer foreign language learning programmes, moved their classes online which allowed a large number of students to take up language courses. According to Goethe-institut, Chennai, 2021 saw over 2,200 applicants and are aiming toward 2,500 students for German this year. "You can get a highly-paid translator's job in India if you speak German. In terms of education, you can easily take admission to any public university in Germany for free. Ideally, people learn German because the career prospects are huge." says Gaurav Raghuvanshi who runs a German learning class in the city. Language like German has a great value in the field of education and work and that is one of the primary reasons behind learning the language. But Gaurav witnessed a change. A lot of his new students want to learn the language because of their interest in Germany's art, culture and sports. "There are learners who are already affluent but want to learn German because of the culture as they have travelled there long back and may want to visit again. Football and music are other reasons behind the popularity of German in India. Bands like Scorpions, Ramstein and Die Toten Hosen, are popular bands and artists that are followed by Indians. Public figures like Michael Ballack, the footballer or Ben B÷hmer, the techno artist or famous composer Johann Sebastian Bach have a huge fan following in India," says Gaurav.Learning language apps like Duolingo, Busuu, Memrise offer you free lessons for all the languages including Hindi, English, German, Korean, Arabic and more. While if you plan to enroll yourself into a language learning program from a reputed institute then it will cost you between 6-14K depending on the levelBeing an OGwatched over 20 K dramas during the lockdown period. 'Cafe Delight', 'Heirs', 'Lady Presidency', 'Sweet Revenge', 'Risky Romance' 'Something In The Game', are some of her favourite shows across various OTT platforms, that led her to take up learning Korean. "I want to watch K dramas without getting distracted by the subtitles. And I do not like watching the show in a translated voiceover because it spoils the essence of the character," shares Rimpa. For Daisy Dinshaw the motivation for learning Spanish came after she met her partner recently. "He would often use quotes in Spanish while talking to me and obviously I did not understand them until he translated them into English. But translation used to spoil the essence of the whole thing so I decided to take up learning the language to understand him better. We will be travelling to Spain soon to meet his family, so a few Spanish sentences will help me get brownie points," says Daisy.Klingon and High Valyrian are the new entrants"Fan communities of popular shows like 'Game of Thrones' or 'Star Trek' also learn Klingon and High Valyrian on the app, to converse and understand the fictional realm better," says Karandeep. These languages are not something that individuals would use on an everyday basis to communicate, it is more like personal enrichment. Pandemic made us realise that self-care or doing things that you enjoy doing should be put first to keep your mind at ease. Hence, the idea of making such languages available to learn is interesting and a lot of interested people are taking it up.Top foreign films across all OTT platforms1. War of the Arrows (Korean Movie) - MX PLAYER2. Les Miserables (French Film) Amazon Prime3. Train to Busan (Korean Film) Amazon Prime4. Parasite (Korean film) Amazon Prime5. Roma (Spanish film) Netflix6. The Bureau (French Series)- Amazon Prime7. Snowdrop (Korean Series) - Hotstar8. Jojo Rabbit (German film)- Hotstar9. The Hidden Life (German Film)- Hotstar10. Spiral (Spanish film)- AmazonTop foreign series across OTT platforms1. Squid Game (Korean Series) Netflix2. Money Heist (Spanish series) Netflix3. Tokyo Alice (Korean Series) Prime4. Dark (German Series)-Netflix5. Emily in Paris (French Series)- Netflix6. Queen and I (Korean series) - MX PLAYER7. The Penthouse (Korean Series) - AMAZON PRIME VIDEO8. True Beauty (Korean series) - AMAZON PRIME VIDEO9. Biohackers (German Series)- Netflix10. Lupin (French series)- NetflixAccording to Netflix, Korean dramas on the platform in India increased more than 370% in 2020 over 2019.
110
Delivery of a tunable femtosecond laser.The johann wolfgang goethe university frankfurt am main (gu) is a research-strong university in the european financial metropolis frankfurt am main. lively, urban and cosmopolitan, as a foundation university it has a high degree of independence. with over 46,000 students (winter semester 2019/20), it is the third largest university in germany. the gu intends to award a delivery contract for a tunable femtosecond laser, as defined in the specification. this contract is financed with eu funds. the laser system is used in university research and must therefore be operational for this purpose. planned experiments include: - time-resolved fluorescence measurements with picosecond time resolution, - measurement of 2-photon absorption spectra and - determination of 2-photon capture cross-sections.

Major organization : JOHANN WOLFGANG GOETHE-UNIVERSITT FRANKFURT AM MAIN, INSTITUT FR PHYSIKALISCHE UND THEORETISCHE CHEMIE

Address : Max von Laue-Str. 7

Country :Germany

Email : uni-frankfurt.ausschreibungen@fgvw.de

Url : http://www.uni-frankfurt.de

Tender notice number : 334801-2022

Notice type : Tender Notice

Open date : 2022-07-19.
111
The Goethe-institut Libanon within the framework of FANTASMEEM and in partnership with EcoConsulting, a sustainability and circular economy consultancy, just launched on June 16, 2022 a new programme to further support the Cultural and Creative Industries in Lebanon and to enhance sustainability among creative practices. Twenty-three design entrepreneurs & creative professionals with established businesses have been selected to take part in the Sustainability in Design Entrepreneurship (SDE) Programme!

Throughout this 3-month hybrid training & mentoring programme, the 23 entrepreneurs will receive up to 95 hours of training sessions on environmental sustainability, circular economy, and business development, in addition to a series of individual mentoring sessions and field-specific training sessions. Furthermore, the programme has a strong focus on networking, exposure, and matchmaking in an aim to encourage synergies, knowledge sharing, and collaborations.

Until the 13th of September 2022, the SDE programme will incorporate the following five distinct but interconnected components to support participants in strengthening their businesses, taking into account the three pillars of Sustainability: Environmental, Social, and Economic.

&minus; Component I - Sustainable Design & Circular Business Models

&minus; Component II - Developing a Comprehensive Business Model

&minus; Component III - Branding, Marketing, and Communication

&minus; Component IV - Pitching your Innovative Business Idea

&minus; Component V - Networking, Matchmaking, and Community Building

Accompanied by a group of local and international trainers, mentors, and experts, the programme is set to support design entrepreneurs in Lebanon to sustainably scale up their business activities; to achieve a higher environmental, social, and economic impact within their creative practice; and to overcome challenges caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and economic crisis.

The project "Cultural and Creative Industries" is implemented by the GIZ on behalf of the German Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development (BMZ) and in cooperation with the Goethe-institut. It improves employment and income opportunities for creative professionals in six partner countries; Lebanon, Jordan, Iraq, Kenya, Senegal, and South Africa and operates mainly in the music, fashion, design and animation sectors. In addition to promoting the development of entrepreneurial, digital, creative and technical skills through training programmes, the project aims to strengthen the framework conditions and the ecosystem of the cultural and creative industries.
112
Entertainment Desk :

Scenic reading of the two contemporary German plays translated

into Bengali was held last Sunday and Monday evenings on the premises of Dr Nilima Ibrahim Auditorium of Bangladesh Mohila Samity in the capital, said a press release.

While welcoming the audience during her inaugural speech on Sunday evening, Dr Kirsten Hackenbroch, Director of Goethe-institut Bangladesh, highlighted the significance of the project captioned 'Contemporary German drama in South Asian Languages' to the local theatre scene. On Sunday evening, Prachyanat staged the scenic reading of the German play titled DER ZINNSOLDAT UND DIE PAPIERTÄNZERIN' by Roland Schimmelpfennig. Romit Roy

translated this play into Bengali. The cast includes Diana Meriline, Urmi Saha Ray, Farhad Ahmed Shamim, AKM Itmam, Abdulla Mohammad Sakib, Prajna Tasnuva Rubayyat, Tanji Kun, Yead Khorshid Eashan, Swatee Bhadra, Gopi Devnath, Supti Das Chaity, Nahida Akhter Akhi, Uchchhas Talukder, Mohammad Abu Imran, Audree Ja. On Monday evening, Bonhishikha staged the scenic

reading of the German play titled ICH LIEB DICH by Kristo &Scaron;agor.

Parthapratim Chattopadhyay translated this play into Bangla.

This project aims to familiarise contemporary German plays to the South Asian local theatre scene and audiences alike. This project has been launched by Goethe-institut Mumbai in 2020, focusing on the selection of plays, as well as identifying qualified German to local

language translators at the initial stage. Afterward, 46 translations were produced out of 20 German plays.

Some of these plays were translated by just one person, others by

several; altogether they were translated into six languages: Bengali, Hindi, Marathi, Sinhalese, Tamil and Urdu. Contemporary German-language drama is characterised by enormous variety. It has long been and continues to be shaped by both a rich tradition and significant international influences.
113
Scenic reading of the two contemporary German plays translated into Bangla was held on Sunday and Monday evenings at the Bangladesh Mohila Shamity - Dr Nilima Ibrahim Auditorium premise.

While welcoming the audience during her inaugural speech on Sunday evening, Dr. Kirsten Hackenbroch, Director, Goethe-institut Bangladesh highlighted the significance of the project captioned 'Contemporary German drama in South Asian Languages' to the local theatre scene.

This project aims to familiarize contemporary German plays to the South Asian local theatre scene and audiences alike. This project has been launched by Goethe-institut Mumbai in 2020, focusing on the selection of plays, as well as identifying qualified German to local language translators at the initial stage. Afterward, 46 translations were produced out of 20 German plays. Some of these plays were translated by just one person, others by several; altogether they were translated into six languages: Bangla, Hindi, Marathi, Sinhalese, Tamil, and Urdu.

Contemporary German-language drama is characterized by enormous variety. It has long been and continues to be shaped by both a rich tradition and significant international influences.

Many playscripts written in German are known to audiences in Asia primarily through their English translations. It would of course be far preferable to present these plays to the public in Asian languages - in translations carried out by competent translators working directly from the German. This would also make it possible for theatre companies who operate in local languages to familiarize themselves with the current German theatre scene.

Those reflections are what gave rise to the project: contemporary German-language drama in six South Asian languages - Bangla, Hindi, Marathi, Sinhalese, Tamil, and Urdu. These translations are intended first and foremost to be used within India, but will also be available to other Goethe-instituts in Dhaka (Bangla), Colombo (Tamil and Sinhalese) and Karachi (Urdu), and in principle to Goethe Centres and additional theatre companies throughout South Asia.

On Sunday evening, Prachyanat staged the scenic reading of the German play titled 'DER ZINNSOLDAT UND DIE PAPIERTANZERIN' by RolandSchimmelpfennig.

Romit Roy translated this play into Bangla.

The cast includes Diana Meriline, Urmi Saha Ray, Farhad Ahmed Shamim, AKM Itmam, Abdulla Mohammad Sakib, Prajna Tasnuva Rubayyat, Tanji Kun, Yead Khorshid Eashan, Swatee Bhadra, Gopi Devnath, Supti Das Chaity, Nahida Akhter Akhi, Ucchas Talukder, Mohammad Abu Imran, Audree Ja.

On Monday evening, Bonhishikha staged the scenic reading of the German play titled 'ICH LIEB DICH'by Kristo A agor.

Parthapratim Chattopadhyay translated this play into Bangla.
114
Under the motto 'Overflowing creativity', the Minister of Culture and Sports, Miquel Iceta, presented this morning the program of Spain as Guest of Honor at the Frankfurt Book Fair 2022, in which almost 200 authors will participate in all languages from Spain.

The event, held at the Goethe-institut in Madrid, was also attended by the project's curator, Elvira Marco, and the president of the Federation of the Spanish Publishers' Guild, Daniel Fernndez. The author Irene Vallejo, representing the dozens of authors who are part of the Fair's literary program, and the director of the Frankfurt Book Fair, Juergen Boos, also took part.

During his speech, the Minister of Culture and Sports highlighted the importance of the Frankfurt Book Fair, the close cultural ties that exist between Spain and Germany, as well as the great opportunity and challenge that being the Guest of Honor of this edition.

"Being Guest of Honor at the Frankfurt Fair will allow Spain to promote the internationalization of our authors and the book industry", he stressed. The minister has valued "the opportunity to promote the Spanish publishing sector internationally and publicize the cultural industry" of Spain.

As he pointed out, forecasts for translations of books by Spanish authors have been exceeded. If in 2019 the translation of around 350 books by Spanish authors into German was planned until the Fair, finally the figure amounts to more than 450 translated books, 40% of them thanks to public aid.

For all these reasons, I am convinced that our presence in Frankfurt is going to be a milestone in the cultural renaissance that we are going to experience after two years of the pandemic, he assured.

Spain has been working for several years on its proposal for the Book Fair, which will be held from October 19 to 23, 2022.

The curator of the project, Elvira Marco, has been in charge of presenting the literary and professional program of our country for the current edition of the Fair and has advanced the program that will be displayed in the 2,000 m2 of the Spanish Pavilion in Frankfurt. It is time to show the results of 4 years of work. We present ourselves with the fulfilled objective of promoting the translation of our authors and the internationalization of the publishing sector, with more than 300 new titles published since 2019 and 150 releases in Germany in 2022, she has detailed.

Marco has highlighted the diversity in terms of genres from narrative, to non-fiction, poetry, or the graphic novel and the fact that both contemporary and classic authors of the Spanish language have been taken into account for this appointment so marked. "The program has worked together with the sector to show literary creativity and the strength of the Spanish publishing industry."

Pillars of the projectThe project is based on the pillars of linguistic plurality, bibliodiversity, the value of Spanish as a bridge with Latin America, and the values ??of equality and diversity of Spanish society. On these foundations the literary program is inspired, elaborated with the support of an Advisory Committee. There will be novels, essays, poetry, dramaturgy, children's and youth literature, comics and illustrated albums.

For his part, Daniel Fernndez, president of the Federation of the Publishers Guild of Spain, has emphasized the importance of the Spain Project, Guest of Honor at the Frankfurt Fair: It will allow us to show internationally the strength of creation and the Spanish edition. We are a country that stands out for its rich editorial production, both in Spanish and in the rest of the State's languages, and the program presented is a reflection of it.

Fernndez added that being the Guest of Honor 31 years later will allow showing the changes that Spain has undergone in these years. "Then he reflected that our country had rejoined Europe and, in addition, the great publishing potential that today is more than confirmed" was discovered.

Irene Vallejo, author of the literary phenomenon El infinity en un reed, with 400,000 copies sold in Spain and published and translated in more than 35 countries, has spoken on behalf of the dozens of writers and illustrators who will be part of the powerful and diverse program writer from Spain Guest of Honor at the Frankfurt Book Fair.

We have reason for hope. We universally agree that reading is a healthy and recommended activity. Moreover, if the desire to read survives the continuous enumeration of its virtues and benefits, it means that it is a truly invincible appetite, he stressed.

Vallejo has valued the work of male and female translators. "It paves the way for us to get to know each other and read each other without borders," he stressed. He has also valued the work of literary fairs, "invitations to be more cosmopolitan." For his part, the director of the Frankfurt Book Fair, Juergen Boos, stressed that Spain, as Guest of Honour, "will reflect the multilingual and vibrant literature and culture of today's Spain and will offer the fair's public a current approach of 'Overflowing Creativity'. Visitors to the fair will be able to discover the varied Spanish publishing scene in October.

Institutional presenceThe general director of Books and the Promotion of Reading, Mara Jose Glvez, the president of Accin Cultural Espaola (AC/E), Jos Andrs Torres Mora, and the Minister Counselor of the German Embassy in Spain, Christoph Wolfrum, also have been present at the event.

The press conference highlighted the importance of this event for Spanish literature and the book industry, and its potential to cross borders and strengthen ties between an international community of readers and professionals.

Being Guest of Honor at the largest international book fair will allow the Spanish book sector to break into new markets. Since 2019, the Ministry of Culture and Sport and AC/E have invested a total of 800,000 euros each year in translations, prioritizing the German market.
115
Institutions such as the Goethe-institut Max Mueller Bhavan Pune, Alliance Franaise de Pune, Pune Film Foundation, National Film Development Corporation of India (NFDC) and National Film Archive of India (NFAI) have collaborated to showcase a list of globally-awarded short films for city audiences. The fourth edition of the International Shorts Collective will be organised at the main auditorium of NFAI on Law College Road, between 5-8 pm on June 9-10. The selection is an array of short films from renowned festivals such as the Trs Court International Film Festival and Short Export 2022. Around 100 short films will be screened, of which six are German and others are French films. The audience can expect a selection from Los Angeles to Santiago, Paris to New Caledonia, and India to Romania. There will also be a category of short films to showcase women's perspectives. 
116
web design framework agreement for the Goethe-institut

The internet area of the Goethe-institut in munich is looking for support in developing the web design for goethe.De. it is intended to conclude a framework agreement for a period of four years with up to three service providers per lot. a detailed description of the required service can be found in annex a "service description".The Goethe-institut approaches the contractor with a problem. the best course of action and the group of participants are discussed together - in many cases, colleagues from the institutes abroad and/or other departments are involved in generating ideas. the contractor moderates the workshops, brings in ideas and visualizes the first aspects. the development of the prototypes should be iterative and user-centric. gathering user feedback early is part of the process.The contractors know the web offers on goethe.De, the cms "content", the corporate design and the standards of the Goethe-institut. the Goethe-institut commissions you with design optimizations on existing pages, the adaptation for new offers or the conversion of a prototype into a cd-compliant, pixel-precise and complete design. in the design development, they take into account aspects such as accessibility, performance, the corporate design and the technical possibilities and limitations for implementation in the cms "content". in addition, the contractors support the continuous simplification and optimization of the design components used, the collaborative structure and the documentation of our components library as well as the further development of the digital cd. the cooperation takes place in short, sprint-cycle rhythms and in close coordination with the product owners and the cms integration service provider. the implementation of the design in the cms is not part of this tender, if necessary, front-end code elements are provided by the contractor. in the implementation they are available for queries, adaptations and testing.

Major organization : Goethe-institut E.V. - ZENTRALE

Address : Oskar-von-Miller-Ring 18.
117
German philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche's frequent mentions of dance and dancers in his writings resonated with Ainesh Madan. Inspired, he created Dance Songs with fellow artistes, Anishaa Tavag, Dayita Nereyeth, and Joshua Sailo, which focuses on The Second Dance Song from Nietzsche's seminal work Thus Spoke Zarathustra.Ainesh, who was a bangaloREsident-Expanded@WeltKunstZimmer,in D'sseldorfin 2021, where he worked on The Dance Song, says: "The show will feature the film The Dance Song, live performances of The Second Dance Song (part 1) and The Second Dance Song (part 3), as well as the world premiere of The Second Dance Song (part 2)."Ainesh, founding co-member of 206 Dance Collective, says he first read Thus Spoke Zarathustra in 2018. "Nietzsche wrote a lot about dance and he was inspired by dancers. Thus Spoke Zarathustra is about Zarathustra, a Nietzschean prophet, who comes across two women, Life and Wisdom, surrounded by a group of women who are dancing. Zarathustra gets inspired and talks about how they make him dance as well and how they can control him in some ways."Nietzsche had famously said that a dancer wears his ears in his/her feet and often spoke of the connection between dancers and their feet. Of course, today, it's not so much about the feet but about whatever you use for dancing since we embrace people with different abilities. Zarathustra actually sings a song for Life and Wisdom, to which the duo dance, and that's why the pieces are called The Dance Song and The Second Dance Song."The performance is not a direct translation of Thus Spoke Zarathustra, but brings alive the essence of the meetings between Zarathustra, Life and Wisdom. "The performance is an abstraction of particular words Nietzsche uses to describe these characters, such as ungrateful tomboy, great woman, unruly paragon etc. I personify those specific words into movement and communicate that on stage. The performance is meant to inspire someone to read and engage with The Dance Song and The Second Dance Song."There will be live music by Abhaydev Praful, a multi-instrumentalist. What makes the performance unique is that the dancers will hear the music for the first time on the day of the performance.Ainesh explains: "Usually dance is dependent on music, but music is not dependent on dance, this keeps dancers from exploring the power of movement by itself." Ainesh says that adopting this unique technique gives freedom to the dancers.The show is supported by Goethe-institut, Bengaluru.Dance Songs will be performed on May 27 and 28, 2022, 7 pm - 8 pm at Bangalore International Centre, Domlur. Entry is free, but registration is necessary.-Sravasti Datta.
118
Juergen Morhard, the outgoing German consul-general in Mumbai, attributed the presence of large number of German manufacturing and services firms in Pune and in various places in Maharashtra to ôopen-door policyö of the state over the years. He made these comments during a farewell reception for him at the Goethe-institut in Pune. ôFacilitating foreign investments is difficult, and there are always issues while doing so. However, whenever we face these issues, the rele- vant authorities, be it the police commissioners, the Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation, the municipal commissioners have always had an open door for us to discuss the issues and find solutions. That is what has stood out for me, and which is why companies have invested in the region,ö he told newspersons. According to the IndoGerman Chamber of Commerce, around 300 companies from Germany have investments in Pune region. ôA number of IT-based services have also made entry into the region now, as also back offices and research and development facilities of service sector companies,ö he added.
119
After two years of pause due to the pandemic, the 5th European Film Festival in Cuba will be held from May 18 to 29 in Havana, and will be held at the 23 and 12 and La Rampa cinemas, as well as the Palacio del Segundo Cabo: Center for the Interpretation of Cuba-Europe Cultural Relations.

As in previous editions, the event has been organized by the Delegation of the European Union in Cuba and the embassies of the Member States of the EU, together with the Ministry of Culture, the Cuban Institute of Cinematographic Art and Industry, the Cinematheque of Cuba, the Office of the Historian of the City of Havana and the Palacio del Segundo Cabo: Center for the Interpretation of Cuba-Europe Cultural Relations.

For the fifth year, film lovers will be able to appreciate a sample of the most contemporary European filmography, which in this edition is made up of 22 fiction films and 4 documentaries from 24 Member States of the European Union. The vast majority of the films included in the program have been provided through the Support to EU Film Festivals project, an initiative financed by the European Commission and managed by a consortium made up of the Goethe-institut, the Institut franais and Cineuropa, the portal for the promotion of European cinema.

The festival program also includes three important collateral events to the film show:

o The exhibition Restored Classics of European Cinema II, organized in conjunction with the Carteln project, will open to the public on Wednesday, May 18, in the lobby of the 23 and 12 cinema. This second edition of the exhibition is made up of a new series of 15 posters produced in screen printing that reinterpret, from the perspective of young Cuban designers, classics of European filmography such as Metrpolis (1927) or The Umbrellas of Cherbourg (1964), exhibited together with their original posters.

o The concert Divertimentos. Jazz versions of themes from contemporary European cinema, by Emilio Martini and his trio along with guest musicians. This concert, which includes seven songs from European films covered in jazz, will premiere for the first time before the public after being recorded last year to be broadcast on Cuban television on the occasion of Europe Day. It will take place in the theater of the National Museum of Fine Arts on Thursday, May 19 at 7:00 p.m.

o A Film Production Course/Workshop, which will be held for the first time within the framework of the Festival, in coordination with the ICAIC and the Cinematheque of Cuba. It will be given by three invited European professionals: Valerio Caruso, CEO of Cineuropa; Alexia Muios, director and screenwriter (Spain); and Carlos D'Ursi, producer and actor (Italy). It will have the participation of some 20 young filmmakers with their projects, along with established Cuban filmmakers.

The 5th European Film Festival in Cuba will be inaugurated on Wednesday, May 18, at 6:00 pm, at the 23 and 12 cinemas, with the screening of the film My brother is chasing dinosaurs , an Italian-Spanish co-production, the director's debut feature Stefano Cipani.
120
Arts Trust, an artist-run non-profit organization, will be joining the world's largest art event 'documenta fifteen' - a 100-day-long exhibition that appears every five years at Kassel in Germany since 1955.

The documenta fifteen will be officially opened between June 18 and September 25, organized by documenta und Museum Fridericianum gGmbH, said the organizers at a press conference on Wednesday.

The projects that will be translated into Kassel are - Palan,Pakghor,Rasad, Chhayachhobi, Fera, Photography from Revisit + 1 and Graffiti.

As many as 19 artists and contributors from BRITTO Arts Trust are invited by documenta fifteen to install, work and experience the process and the final outcomes in person in Kassel.

BRITTO Arts Trust is showcasing seven different fragments of a core project focused on politics of food.

The increasing control and politics on seeds, pesticides crops and food by the largest global corporations is alarming to the lives at present and will become a big threat to the generations to come. Over the years, a larger ecosystem has been created to execute this process-based project.

The entire project of BRITTO is financially supported by the documenta und Museum Fridericianum gGmbH and their major supporters Goethe-institut, Arts Collaboratory and Bagri Foundation.

The Artistic Director of the documenta fifteen Ruangrupa, which is a collective from Indonesia, has built the foundation of documenta fifteen on its core values and ideas Lumbung, as an overall concept of the starting point for documenta fifteen.

Lumbung is the Indonesian word for a collectively governed rice-barn, where the gathered harvest is stored for the common good of the community.

Over the coming years, lumbung will be operational in the lead up to documenta fifteen in 2022, and beyond.

Towards documenta fifteen, Ruangrupa invited community-oriented collectives, organizations and institutions from around the world to practice lumbung with each other and work on new models of sustainability and collective practice of sharing.

BRITTO is offered to showcase this collective project in documenta's at 'documenta halle' in the heart of Kassel city.

A 20 years journey Book of BRITTO Arts Trust will also be published by the Steidl publishing house from Germany.

A year-long research-based book and a harvesting-based recipe book will be published from the lumbung press that is set by the lumbung members and lumbung artists at documenta halle.
121
The Goethe-institut Jordan will host a two-day conference on May 11-12 in Amman on opportunities for Jordanian skilled workers in the German labour market.

The event, with the participation of main stakeholders in both countries, will discuss the necessary requirements for jobs in Germany, according to a statement from the institute.

The German labour market is facing a shortage of skilled workers in some sectors and many well-educated Jordanians are seeking job opportunities abroad, the statement said.

The event will offer a chance for representatives of Jordanian associations, universities and vocational training centres as well as the Ministry of Labour to meet with representatives of the German Federal Employment Agency, the German embassy in Amman, the German Agency for International Cooperation (GIZ) as well as German companies and sector associations, the statement said.

Criteria for successful job application in Germany are a relevant education, proficiency of the German language and previous working experience, the statement said.

The Goethe-institut is the cultural institute of the Federal Republic of Germany. It promotes knowledge of the German language and fosters international cultural cooperation.
122
Goethe-institut / Max Mueller Bhavan Kolkata conducted its Open House Day on April 23sto welcome students, artists and arts enthusiasts to enjoy a day-long event. To mark the event, the institute hosted film screenings, music corner, quiz and workshops, German learning activities, exhibition, scenic reading, pop-up cafe and more throughout the day from morning till late evening. The day recorded a large number of footfalls. Talking about the initiative, the director Astrid Wege said, "Our institute is for the people. We want our partners to visit and enjoy the ambiance of the institute. I took charges in the middle of the pandemic and I could never really get to meet our students and partners physically. We encourage physical meetings. We have a sprawling library where we want people to come and read. And that's why we decided to welcome them once again back to our institute."The institute has planned a long list of events to increase the physical interaction with members and patrons. Recently, they hosted an elaborate gig by a Munich-based group, JISR. "That was a wonderful show. But it is not just about elaborate outdoor concerts. We want to create a place within our institute to encourage more cultural exchange between our partners," Astrid told us.
123
The National Theatre of Namibia and Goethe-institut Namibia opened the call for artistic works for the 2nd edition of the annual 1-week long Otjomuise Live Arts Festival (OLAF) set to take place from 14 to 22 October in and around Windhoek.

The festival aims to bridge life and the arts in the city, by offering opportunities for live artistic forms to be showcased and/or exhibited within Windhoek's public spaces.

In 2021, the festival was successfully launched and hosted over 30 artists, showcasing small-scaled happenings, installations, performances, live music and public engagements that were spread across the city.

OLAF is largely brought about by the inaccessibility of the majority of Windhoek's inhabitants to various artistic expressions; often limited to indoor, and at times, inaccessible areas of the city. Thus, OLAF offers opportunities for immersive, experimental, and refreshing artistic forms that can be showcased or installed in public spaces where everyday life and the arts can meet.

Individual and ensemble performing artists, visual, digital, and conceptual artists are called to propose small-scaled works, that are logistically achievable and family-friendly to feature in the festival.

Due to resource allocations, ensembles should not exceed four members. A standard material, rehearsal, and transport fee of N$ 1000 will be provided to each contracted artist, who will be remunerated with an additional fee.

To apply, fill in the online application form and submit it between 03 to 30 May. The themes of proposed works can cover a wide range and are not limited. More information about the festival is available on the National Theatre's website.
124
The National Theatre of Namibia (NTN) and Goethe-institut Namibia on Tuesday announced an open call for artistic works for the second edition of the annual Otjomuise Live Arts Festival (OLAF), set for Windhoek later this year.

The festival, scheduled for 14 to 22 October, aims to bridge life and the arts in the city by providing opportunities for live artistic forms to be showcased and/or exhibited within Windhoek's public spaces.

According to a joint press release, individual and ensemble performing artists, visual, digital, and conceptual artists are invited to propose small-scaled works that are logistically feasible and family-friendly for inclusion in the festival by submitting an application through the online application form between 03 and 30 May 2022.

'The proposed works' themes are not limited and can cover a wide range. Due to resource constraints, ensembles should not have more than four members and each contracted artist will be paid an additional fee in addition to standard material, rehearsal, and transportation fee of N.dollars 1 000,' it said.

It added that artists are welcome to suggest preferred public sites, but should be specific about the locations to be considered. Only shortlisted candidates will be contacted after the deadline.

The festival hosted over 30 artists in 2021, showcasing small-scaled happenings, installations, performances, live music, and public engagements that were spread across the city.

OLAF is largely caused by the inaccessibility of the majority of Windhoek residents to various artistic expressions, which are frequently limited to indoor and, at times, inaccessible areas of the city. As a result, it provides opportunities for immersive, experimental, and refreshing artistic forms to be showcased or installed in public spaces where everyday life and the arts can collide.
125
The Goethe-institut Namibia's Creative Entrepreneurship Programme in collaboration with GIZ Startup Namibia has launched for a 3rd year with 10 participants, who will refine their businesses to become even greater industry players in the music & festival production industry.

The businesses selected for the 2022 programme are Blaqhouse Collections Management, Wiser Observer, Area X, OFFTHEGRID, Fine Tune Music CC, Aspect Audio Visual, MR Technical Events & Media Consultants, FrontPage Media, DONLU Africa, Idiosyncratic Productions.

The aim of the programme in 2022 remains to encourage and inspire creative entrepreneurs in Namibia towards identifying lucrative business opportunities; developing their business ideas and refining their business plans, with the long term aim to create economic growth in the creative industries.

The programme features a series of workshops where one theme will be dealt with in-person over 3 to 4 weeks, assignments, review sessions and peer learning. In addition to workshops, the participants will be invited to masterclasses that are facilitated by experienced industry leaders both locally and internationally which adds a layer of practical growth.

Mentorship & networking also forms part of the programme elements which will be made available to the participants about the content they're working through. This platform will also be an opportunity to link the participants to a wider network and also potential partners/ funders or clients to generate sales.

This year's Creative Entrepreneurship Programme is set to end with a final showcase event, which will allow the participants to apply the lessons learnt in a bid to show the audience what their businesses are capable of.
126
The 2022 Doek Literary Festival, Namibia's first international literary festival, took place at the Goethe-institut in Windhoek from, 21 to 23 April.

In partnership with the University of East Anglia's (UEA) International Chair of Creative Writing (ICCW), and sponsored by Bank Wndhoek, the three-day celebration of reading and writing brought lovers of literature together to take part in creative writing workshops and panel discussions.

With fiction in short and novel form, the festival was headlined by Tsitsi Dangarembga, an award-winning Zimbabwean author of Nervous Conditions, The Book of Not, and This Mournable Body. Her co-headliner, Zukiswa Wanner, was the first African woman to be awarded the Goethe Medal and the author of award-winning novels such as The Madams, Men of the South, and London Cape Town Joburg.

Nigerian writer Femi Kayode, who won the UEA/Little Brown Award for his debut novel Lightseekers, and Jean McNeil, herself an award-winning author and Professor of Creative Writing at UEA, rounded up the festival's international guest list.

Namibian flavours for the festival's line-up were provided by the 2022-2023 Doek Collective, a diverse cohort of emerging Namibian writers whose works have been featured in Doek! Literary Magazine consisting of Charmaine //Gamxamus, Roxane Bayer, Kay-Leigh De Sousa, Ndawedwa Denga Hanghuwo, who won the inaugural fiction prize of the Bank Wndhoek Doek Literary Awards in 2021, Katherine Hunter, Filemon Iiyambo, Dalene Kooper, and Ange Mucyo.

"This gathering of literature enthusiasts of all ages and backgrounds, the first of its kind in Namibia, was inspiring and encouraging to aspiring and established storytellers from the country's young literary community," said Remy Ngamije, Doek's founder and chairperson.

"With Bank Wndhoek's generous support, this exciting but complex festival's planning, organising, and hosting stages were smoothly executed and permitted. Without Bank Wndhoek, it would not be possible for Namibia to join countries like Nigeria, South Africa, Kenya, and Ghana, as a country capable of hosting prestigious literary events with national and international attendants and audiences."

Connecting positive change

Dangarembga remarked that it was encouraging to see Bank Windhoek supporting such an initiative. "The arts are civic in nature and seeing a private institution like Bank Windhoek involved in this important project can only bode well for the country," Wanner added that literary festivals are important cultural events that provide readers and writers with means of encountering each other. "Festivals like Ake, in Lagos, Nigeria, are supported each year by a banking institution. In Namibia, this role has been taken on by Bank Windhoek - we would like to continue seeing this support for this festival becoming a staple of the African literary calendar."

Justice David Smuts, Doek's patron, also commended Bank Windhoek's generous support. "In a country like Namibia where the arts are under-resourced and under-valued, it is crucial that Bank Windhoek's support for the arts is acknowledged and commended. In supporting this festival and the Bank Windhoek Doek Literary Awards, they continue to make it possible for art and artists to flourish, two things that are essential for our young constitutional democracy."

Ngamije said the Doek Literary Festival provided fertile ground for conversations about the desperate need to nurture reading, hone one's writing craft, develop the necessary discipline and determination to pursue careers in the arts, and literary funding in Namibia. "One of the things this festival made clear, through the workshops and panel discussions, was that there is nothing wrong with Namibian literature - the issue lies in funding," said Remy Ngamije.

"Without the financial resources needed to create spaces for ideas and ideals to be exchanged, it is impossible to think about developing a literary culture or community. Bank Windhoek's support for the 2022 Doek Literary Festival permitted a platform for connection and positive change to be made, and its role in Namibia's literary present and future cannot be emphasised enough."

The 2022 Doek Literary Festival media gallery will be available at festival2022.doek.africa in the coming days.
127
subscription of zoom licenses

Subscription of zoom enterprise licenses, zoom rooms licenses and zoom events licenses a detailed description of the required service can be found in annex a "service description".The Goethe-institut uses the web conferencing software "zoom" to conduct language courses and public events. this requires zoom licenses for the employees.

Major organization : Goethe-institut E.V. - ZENTRALE

Address : Oskar-von-Miller-Ring 18

Country :Germany

Email : Timo.Kozlowski@goethe.de

Url : www.goethe.de

Tender notice number : 207946-2022

Notice type : Tender Notice

Open date : 2022-05-18

Tender documents : T472298936.html.
128
Students from all over the country competed in the national German as a Foreign Language Competition at the Goethe-institut Namibia on Saturday, 9 April.

The main winners were Paula Swart (Edugate Academy), Kayla Diergaardt (Rocky Crest High school), Neyobi le Hane (Berg Op Academy), and Amani Mwakambeu (Technical High School), Levine Gauases (Otjiwarongo Secondary) who each went home with a laptop and language course.

In addition to the oral exams, the event for the 22 German learners who took part in the competition consisted of a colourful and entertaining program with an agent escape game and the musicians Lize Ehlers and EES, which was moderated by Till and Sybille from Hitradio. Via Livestream, family, friends, classmates and interested parties could tune in and follow the event.

The annual language competition, held since 1987, is directed at children and young people who have chosen German as a foreign language as a school subject and aims to promote the acquisition and maintenance of the German language.

"German is spoken by around 120 million people worldwide and knowledge of it can provide a decisive advantage in a country like Namibia," said Corinna Burth, the organiser of the event and Commissioner for Educational Cooperation at Goethe-institut Namibia.

"It is a challenge and always brave to take part in a competition, but you can see from the success of this language competition that not only those who have won a great prize, but all those who took part will benefit from this experience and be motivated to continue learning the German language," said German Ambassador to Namibia, Herbert Beck.

The event was sponsored by the German Embassy Windhoek, the DeutschNamibische Gesellschaft (DNG), the Padagogischer Austauschdienst (PAD), the

Arbeits- und Fordergemeinschaft der Deutschen Schulvereine in Namibia (AGDS) and Namibia Breweries.

Please Note: Illustration(s) are not available due to copyright restrictions.
129
Now, those studying in the Delhi government schools affiliated with Delhi Board of School Education (DBSE) will be able to study German too. On Tuesday, DBSE signed an MoU with Goethe-institut/Max Mueller Bhavan for the language course.The course will be started initially in the 31 Schools of Specialised Excellence, which are affiliated to DBSE. Later, it will be offered in other Delhi government schools as well.Max Mueller Bhavan is a non-profit German cultural association operational worldwide to promote the German language. The MoU was signed in the presence of deputy chief minister and education minister Manish Sisodia and ambassador of Germany to India Walter J Lindner."The Kejriwal government is committed to providing global exposure to all its students studying in Delhi government schools and giving flight to their dreams. As a part of the programme to introduce a prominent global language in government schools, German is one of the first languages that students will learn. Learning a global language is not just the acquisition of a skill but also an association with the culture of a particular country," said Sisodia."This partnership with Max Mueller Bhavan will open many new jobs as well as academic opportunities for students of Delhi government schools in future. Learning the language can help the students find opportunities in sectors like science, engineering, tourism, hospitality, aero flight, research and others," he added.Appreciating the efforts of the government, Linder said, "This linguistic partnership with Delhi government will open new horizons to culture, art, education and many other partnerships in future. Learning German will open routes to job opportunities for Delhi government school students in many EU countries, not just Germany."
130
Sister Library will launch 'Everyday Stories', a collection of stories about six young women of Karail, written and illustrated by Sadia Sharmin, on Thursday evening.

A reading session will also be held every day, led by the members of the Shaheed Rumi Memorial Library of Karail and moderated by the author, said a press release on Wednesday.

The stories of six young women-Asha, Anjum, Nodi, Shahana, Swapna and Jannat-illustrated the challenges and harassment faced by girls and women in Bangladesh in the book.

Based on the real-life experiences of the girls from the Karail slum- the largest self-organized settlement in Dhaka, the book asked questions about gender-based discrimination.

The members of Sister Library believed that knowledge and awareness always lead to social and human responsibility.

According to them, the library is not only a place to read but also a catalyst for social movements.

Author Sadia Sharmin is an architect, researcher and academic. Since 2016, Sadia has been conducting independent and collaborative research in Karail slum.

Everyday Stories is a project by Goethe-institut Bangladesh, facilitated by HerStory Foundation, with the help of Creating Resources for Empowerment in Action (CREA), Bangladesh Legal Aid and Services Trust (BLAST), Brac James P Grant School of Public Health, Rotary Club of Dhaka Pathfinders and Dhaka Memory.
131
The Delhi Board of School Education will introduce the German language to its school curriculum for the training of students studying in Delhi Government-run schools in a foreign language.

The board on Tuesday signed an MoU with a non-profit Goethe-institut/Max Mueller Bhavan, a non-profit German cultural association operational worldwide to promote the German language in the presence of Deputy Chief Minister and Education Minister Manish Sisodia and Ambassador of Germany to India Walter J Lindner.

Speaking on the occasion Sisodia said the Kejriwal Government is committed to providing global exposure to all its students studying in Delhi government schools.

"As a part of the Kejriwal Government's program to introduce a prominent global language in government schools, German is one of the first languages that students will learn. Learning a global language is not just the acquisition of skills but also an association with the culture of a particular country. This partnership with Goethe-institut Max Mueller Bhavan will open many new jobs as well as academic opportunities for students of Delhi government schools in future," he added.

Lindner said the linguistic partnership with the Delhi government will open new horizons to culture, art, education and many other partnerships in future. "Learning German will open routes to job opportunities for Delhi government school students in many EU countries, not just Germany," he added.

The officials informed that the German language will be introduced to 30 schools under the Directorate of Education (DoE) including Schools of Specialized Excellence (SoSEs) on a pilot basis.

"Along with students, Goethe-institut will also train and support teachers/resource persons teaching German language in schools of DoE and gradually enable them to independently take over German language education, with Max Mueller Bhavan playing an advisory role," Director of Education Himanshu Gupta said.

Published by HT Digital Content Services with permission from United News of India.
132
In its third edition, KunstRaumGoethe by the Goethe-institut Cyprus is presenting the exhibition Found and Lost with artists Phung-Tien Phan from Germany and Marina Xenofontos from Cyprus. Curated by Lorenzo Graf, the exhibition consists of existing and newly produced sculptures, installations and video works. Parallel to Found and Lost, creative workshops for children and adults will also take place on the theme of the exhibition.

"What I eat, what I wear, what sports I practice, which location I tag, or which vintage objects I re-evaluate: creatively and precisely composed consumer behaviours perform and illustrate how I found the way to myself," writes Graf in the curator's notes. "The exhibition Found and Lost with works by Phung-Tien Phan and Marina Xenofontos deals with this phenomenon."

Through their different approaches and chosen media, Phan and Xenofontos both deal with searching, finding and losing in both the tangible and intangible sense. The processes of self-discovery and self-presentation, whether on an individual or collective level, are central to their work. Their artworks evoke feelings of lightness and simultaneously self-ironic hopelessness the closer one looks at the many layers of meaning.

KunstRaumGoethe is an event-series launched by the Goethe-institut Cyprus in February 2020, exhibitions with contemporary artists and curators, who are connected to Germany and Cyprus. For its third edition, curator Graf from Germany was invited to develop an exhibition proposal following a research trip to Cyprus in November 2021.

A series of creative meetings curated by museum educator Valia Matsentidou will accompany the exhibition, allowing participants of different age groups to engage with the artworks through different experiential approaches. The workshop '...And then we will surely find our way' invites young visitors (ages 6-12) to an exploration game. This workshop will take place on four dates, first on April 30 and May 14 in Greek, then on May 7 in Turkish and on June 4 in English.

Adult visitors will be challenged to experiment and exchange the meanings of 'finding' and 'losing' through creative activities at the Let's get lost workshop. April 14 will be the session in Greek, May 10 in Turkish and May 24 in English. The workshops in Greek and English will be implemented by Valia Matsentidou and in Turkish by Nurtane Karagil.

Found and Lost

Exhibition with artists Phung-Tien Phan and Marina Xenofontos. Third edition of KunstRaumGoethe. Opening: April 9, 6pm. April 13-June 4. Goethe-institut Cyprus, Nicosia. 
133
 framework contract for planning services, media technology, lighting technology. acoustics

Provision of planning and monitoring services in the field of media technology planning, lighting planning and acoustic planning for new and conversion measures at the Goethe-institut (event halls, seminar rooms and rooms with media technology equipment). a detailed description of the required service can be found in appendix 1 "service description".The subject of the tender are the contractual conditions for the conclusion of a framework contract (specialist planner framework contract for media technology). the subject of the framework agreement will be the provision of testing, planning and monitoring services in the field of media technology planning, lighting planning and acoustic planning for the design of the event areas for future projects and existing properties of the Goethe-institut in germany and abroad. the concrete project assignment is carried out by the client, the services are provided according to the conditions of the framework contract.

Major organization : Goethe-institut E.V. - ZENTRALE

Address : Oskar-von-Miller-Ring 18

Country :Germany

Email : miguel.espinosa@goethe.de

Url : www.goethe.de

Tender notice number : 170410-2022

Notice type : Tender Notice

Open date : 2022-04-29

Tender documents : T471763188.html.
134
Entertainment Desk :

'Weaving Stories,' a multidisciplinary art exhibition that brought together the narratives of eight different projects organised by the Goethe-institut Bangladesh was inaugurated recently at DrikPath Bhaban

in the capital's Panthapath area.

The exhibition brought together the narratives of eight different projects realised through the Goethe Pop Up Festival 2021.

It is a part of their 60-year celebration programme. Last year as part of its 60 years in Dhaka, the Goethe-institut Bangladesh initiated a unique venture highlighting the cultural projects from across the country with the signature name Goethe Pop Up. With a call for proposals, the venture was set in motion with ideas submitted by curators, academicians and specialists from all across Bangladesh. From a number of high-quality concepts, reflecting on the diversity of expressions and the representation of the variety of unique approaches, the Goethe-institut selected eight curatorial partnerships or artist collectives to integrate into an ecosystem of multiple Goethe Pop Ups across Bangladesh. With an aim to develop new ideas that resonate with local audiences as well as align with the Goethe-institut's objectives to strengthen existing cultural relations, the exhibition fosters new and meaningful ways of cross-national exchanges with the purpose of reflecting on and producing knowledge.
135
Jazz artist, Damasfusion, will be performing at Night Under the Stars on 1 April at 19:00 at the Goethe-institut Namibia, with tickets going for N$20 at the door.

Damasfussion Garises is an Afrofusionjazz artist and her music is a fusion of Afro chants rich in clicks of the beautiful Khoe language, folktales and complex Southern African rhythms, with colourful and bold sounds of Jazz.

Damasfussion promises an evening that is set to bring forth entertaining live music that is set to leave her audience trance like in song and dance.

Mandisa Rasmeni

Mandisa Rasmeni has worked as reporter at the Economist for the past five years, first on the entertainment beat but now focussing more on community, social and health reporting. She is a born writer and she believes education is the greatest equalizer. She received her degree in Journalism at the Namibia University of Science and Technology (NUST) in June 2021. . She is the epitome of perseverance, having started as the newspaper's receptionist in 2013.
136
"There is uncertainty," exhales Lalindra Amarasekara, visual technologist and founder of Colombo-based creative studio Cyber Illusions. "Right now, it is not about creating art. It has come to the point where everybody is thinking about survival and what the next few months will be like."

Last year in Sri Lanka, job losses coupled with economic contraction precipitated by the pandemic caused inflation to hit a record high of over 11 percent, escalating the prices of basic goods. On September 1, 2021, President Gotabaya Rajapaksa declared an economic emergency. The World Bank estimates that 500,000 people have already fallen below the poverty line.

"I see people asking for rice, saying that they have no one giving them jobs," explains Nigel Perera, producer and co-founder of Sri Lankan electronic imprint Jambutek Recordings. "It is hard for someone to keep doing something creative. People are just trying to keep their families afloat."

The military was granted the power to sell essential items at prices set by the Government, but this has not eased tension among citizens. There are now fears that the country could be declared bankrupt by the end of 2022. "The resources are mismanaged," sighs poet and experimental ambient musician Imaad Majeed. "We have water (and) power cuts every day. Things are pretty dire."

Sri Lankans have become accustomed to hardship. In 2009, the country's brutal, 25-year civil war finally ended having claimed more than 100,000 lives and displaced millions, though the true number for both remains ambiguous. In 2010, in an attempt to change its global image, there was a drive to publicise the island country's sandy beaches, pristine blue waters and lush forests. Beachfront clubs, and parties in resorts and high-end hotels started cropping up, pumping out saccharine remixes of Top 40 hits to oblivious clubgoers who were largely unaware of the destitution surrounding them. Besides a few rock bands and commercial pop DJs, there was no real music scene made by, or for, Sri Lankans hungry for a new creative movement. By 2012, though, that was changing.

Good Music Movement was a blog before its co-founder Ravi Bandaranaike evolved it into an event series. Focusing on musical styles outside of the mainstream, GMM injected new life into a stagnant nightlife scene catering to Western tourists. Simultaneously, Asvajit Boyle was meeting like-minded Sri Lankan creatives at the artist residency, Sound Camp. Alongside Perera, Boyle started Jambutek Recordings, the country's first digital label. Their catalogue comprises agile, bass-heavy beats which shift into taut, wiry slices of rapturous glitch-hop, house and techno; each release crafted to pop and fizz with menace and rooted in the dark atmosphere of the club. Around the same time, DJ-led collectives like Bang Bang and Booka Booka also came to the fore, playing nu-disco, house and techno. The community was thriving and the foundations were being laid for a scene with real longevity.

But creatives had to fund everything themselves or seek international support. The Sri Lankan Government didn't offer any help. "We have an Arts Council," Majeed says, "but they do nothing. They just support propaganda. Everyone relies on different means - some commercial, some independent."

In 2010, Sumudi Suraweera and his co-founder Eshantha Peiris self-funded Musicmatters, a music school in the city that nurtures and produces some of the most exciting talent on the island. "We wanted to offer a space that was more creatively inclined. We also wanted to see if we could create some kind of scene for alternative music, because, at the time, there was only the mainstream."

Musicmatters had two main goals: to help young people develop their musical skills, and to assist older people who wanted to learn instruments as a hobby. The initiative led to a festival, a label called Fish Climbs Tree Records, as well as an event series. Over time, the school became the primary focus. "Without being able to secure any funding, it was an unsustainable model," Suraweera admits. "That made us realise it's more realistic to have the school as the infrastructure."

Musicmatters has helped students find opportunities at Berkeley and Yale, while giving others a space to explore their creativity. They have helped develop dozens of bands, including double bass and drums duo Baliphonics, folk-influenced five-piece Serendib Sorcerers and electronic live band Kinesthetics 0800. "We attract young adult students who were part of the education system," Suraweera says, "but they didn't quite fit anywhere. They got out of school and didn't really have a path. They were searching for a place to study or play music, and take it further."

Organisations like Goethe-institut and Border Movement also stepped in to fund projects, one of which was the seminal Pettah Interchange - where Boyle and fellow young creatives took over abandoned and neglected urban spaces. Pettah Interchange would fill these derelict buildings with immersive sound, light and video installations, bringing audiences a sensory experience unlike anything they'd encountered before. With this blank canvas in front of them, young artists raised under the shadow of war were free to experiment however they pleased.

Pettah Interchange was notable for both its striking visuals from Cyber Illusions and its ability to transform venues. Like the Rio Cinema and Hotel, a sprawling and dilapidated complex in the heart of Colombo's Slave Island district; the Old Town Hall Market in Pettah, a bustling marketplace turned performance space; and Pettah's abandoned Gaffoor Bulding, where an intense audiovisual experience was delivered in the underground car park and restaurant. Bizarre, otherworldly characters, backdropped by bright colours, were projected onto walls and painted on bins by artists from both Sri Lanka and Berlin.

"It became a testing ground," says Amarasekara. "It inspired you to work with the aesthetics of the space and the story behind it." From 2012, until its eventual closure in 2017, Pettah Interchange became a calendar highlight. And, crucially, it helped place Sri Lanka as an exciting creative hub in South Asia.

In 2017, this bubbling and influential scene was operating at its heights. DJs like Sunara, Asvajit and Nigel Perera were much in demand, Jambutek's releases were eagerly anticipated, and Cyber Illusions became renowned for their unique approach to visual art. They were pushing the envelope in sound, design and lighting, proving what artists from South Asia were capable of when given the resources. But it wasn't to last.

The rise of badly-executed events, which doubled as cash-grabs, led to an oversaturation of events and eventually tragedy. In 2018, the poorly ventilated (and still under-construction) Wadduwa Sunset Beach Hotel hosted a party called Heaven's Gate, promoted by a private company. The floor was barely tiled, the walls unpainted, and the oversold event was held inside a room that couldn't hold the nearly-2,000 people that turned up. It was August, and temperatures soared past 35 degrees. Four people died from a combination of extreme heat, lack of oxygen and alleged drug use.

In response to these parties, the police and then Government, led by President Maithripala Sirisena, started a war on drugs. Capital punishment was reinstated for the first time in over 40 years. An anti-drug task force with increased police powers was deployed to curtail the use of narcotics, as well as the launch of an island-wide anti-drugs campaign. Like his predecessor, who was famed for saving the country from civil war, President Sirisena wanted to be known for saving the country, too. But as his power waned, his authoritarianism increased.

He went as far as attributing a 2019 terrorist attack to an international drug ring, despite local militants claiming responsibility.

On 21 April, 2019, three churches in Sri Lanka and three luxury hotels in Colombo were bombed. Two smaller explosions took place in the suburbs of Colombo. A total of 269 people were killed, with at least 500 injured. The Government called for a State of Emergency, giving the military and police licence to search, arrest and detain citizens for 24 hours without a warrant. The country fell into a hushed quiet. Less than a year later, the pandemic struck, turning the world on its head. Sri Lanka's bubbling underground music scene was flattened.

Since the onset of the pandemic, Sri Lanka's tourism industry - which contributes more than ten percent of the country's GDP - has nosedived. In turn, over 200,000 people have lost their livelihoods. Events and parties have almost completely stopped. Releases have slowed down, and a once-thriving scene has nearly disappeared. Quietly, though, people are ensuring that nightlife continues to evolve.

"[Asvajit and myself] observed how the pandemic was affecting artists' livelihoods," Majeed says. "Not being able to play regular gigs, not having the resources to create an album or a music video - there was something to be done."

Thattu Pattu - the name borrows terminology from both local languages, Sinhalese and Tamil, to create a loose translation of "knock" and "catchfire" - is a new collective formed to support the next generation of artists. Co-curated by Asvajit Boyle, Sumudi Suraweera, Thomas Burkhalter and Imaad Majeed, the group selects eight artists to award funding. "We pulled people together based on how distinct their voices are and how much they want to nurture the flame," Majeed says. "Our platform allows these different voices to resonate [collectively] but also gives space to each of them."

With a precarious future and lack of Government support, creatives in Sri Lanka are looking at how to restructure themselves, to figure out new ways to approach their scene. "It's about how do you do it, in a decentralised way," Majeed says. "You can't have one movement. Artists are going to express themselves from all these different parts of the country and we have to find a way to pay attention and acknowledge all of it."

Ultimately, hope is the energy that underpins - and fuels - Sri Lanka's creative community. They've faced challenges that most would surrender to, but instead they have channelled their misfortune into resilience, carving out new paths and spaces in which to thrive. This is evident in the upsurge of independent venues and club nights where people of genders, ethnicities and classes are welcome. Tamil rappers are emerging from the fringes of the island, raising awareness for the plight of their people over tight, skeletal beats. Underground queer festivals are beginning to appear. "There's so much more variety now," Boyle smiles. "There has been a lot of progress - so many more people are doing what they want to do."

"You can't have one movement. Artists are going to express themselves from all these different parts of the country and we have to find a way to pay attention and acknowledge all of it"

The foundations for a bright future are beginning to take shape. Thattu Pattu is helping lift up the next generation through artists like Amila Sandaruwan, Isuru Kumarasinghe and Divanka & Shivy; Jambutek continues to release music; Cyber Illusions is a prospering company, with Amarasekara ensuring that no one lost their job during the pandemic; and Musicmatters have set up a scholarship programme for families who can't afford their fees. There is optimism that the worst has already happened.

Despite the current perilous state of the country, these young artists are building structures that have a lasting impact. After all, if they don't, who will? "It can only grow if we are consistent and evolve as we go," Suraweera says with palpable confidence. "It can't really go down from here."

Photography: Shehan Obeysekara Images courtesy of Goethe-institut Sri Lanka.
137
 You can now learn and experience the printing technique used in the early 19th century and create your own blue prints with naturally found objects like leaves and feathers, at the cyanotype workshop organized by Goethe-institut / Max Mueller Bhavan, Chennai and CPB Foundation on April 3. The workshop will introduce participants to the basics of the Cyanotype printmaking with simple chemistry using sunlight and tap water along with interesting objects to encourage participants to learn a new technique. The process involves exposing treated paper or cloth to UV light to produce a cyan-blueprint, increasing self-expression, creativity and imagination.The workshop is aimed at taking people back in time, to the era when people experienced sheer joy in creating the prints in a physical form - something that has been lost in the digital era.The workshop will be held at The Hub, Egmore Museum Campus. Y
138
The Goethe-institut Sri Lanka in collaboration with the theatre group Inter Act Art and the Deutsches Theater Berlin conducted an online stream of the stage drama "Maria Stuart by Friedrich Schiller" directed by Anne Lenk.

Synopsis:

Mary Stuart, Catholic Queen of Scots, has fled from her people, who accuse her of contract killing her husband. In England, she hopes for political asylum from her cousin, the Protestant Queen Elizabeth, but at the same time lays claim to her crown, whose rightful heir she sees herself as. She is captured and interned, liberation attempts by young rescuers fail.

But Mary's splendour also radiates from the dungeon: she can count on a loyal following and knows France at her side. After several failed assassination attempts on Queen Elizabeth, which are blamed on Mary, she is to be executed. In Elisabeth's advisory staff, opinions differ, an attempt at reconciliation in the form of a meeting between the two queens fails magnificently. Nevertheless, Elisabeth hesitates to carry out the death sentence. She fears the decision in a duel that no winner will know.

Friedrich Schiller's Maria Stuart is a game of intrigue in the web of politics, religion, love and power, to which all figures are inescapably subjected. Schiller draws a tableau of powerful people who shy away from responsibility and suffocate in their positions. And he shows them as deeply human characters who, in their actions or non-actions, lonely, isolated and unfree, repeatedly end up with themselves. Sartre: "Man is condemned to freedom. Because once he is thrown into the world, he is responsible for everything he does."
139
- It was a musical night to remember, all thanks to Munich-based German collective JISR that cast a spell on music lovers in Dhaka on Tuesday with its performance of fusion melody -- from Arabic classical music to African Gnawa grooves and German Krautrock.

The concert was held at National Theatre Hall of the Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy (BSA), celebrating the Mujib Borsho alongside 60 years of the Goethe-institut in Bangladesh and 50 years of diplomatic ties between Bangladesh and Germany.

Organized by the German cultural organisation, the special concert -- "JISR // Brucke: From The Isar To The Ganges" -- was arranged in partnership with the German Embassy in Dhaka and BSA.

The concert was joined by Achim Troster, Ambassador of Germany to Bangladesh, alongside Dr Kirsten Hackenbroch, director of Goethe-institut Bangladesh, and BSA director general Liaquat Ali Lucky, as the special guests.

Lauding the special event, Ambassador Achim Troster said, "This year marks 50 years of diplomatic relationship between Bangladesh and Germany. In 1972, Germany was one of the first countries in Europe to recognise the People's Republic of Bangladesh.

"A strong pillar of our bilateral relationship remains the development cooperation in the areas of climate change, good governance, renewable energy and recently also for the Rohingyas and host communities.

"However, the cultural and educational cooperation between Germany and Bangladesh dates back even before our diplomatic relationship. Today's concert is also a part of our cultural cooperation uniting musicians from the two countries."

Dr Hackenbroch, on his part, said, "I congratulate the people of Bangladesh on 50 years of being who you wanted to be: citizens of an independent country. Celebrating 50 years of German-Bangladeshi diplomatic relations, there is no one better on the stage than JISR - Arabic for 'bridge'.

"In the land of water, bridges are crucial as they connect and create spaces in many ways. They stand well for how the Goethe-institut works with the cultural scene and the people of Bangladesh. We are co-producing cultural spaces that invite debate and make us listen to one another, and we enable mobility with a larger objective of global learning."

The first tour of a German music collective in Bangladesh since the Covid-19 pandemic began in the country, the concert, led by the charismatic linguist-singer-percussionist and Gembri player Dr Mohcine Ramdan, is described as a part of the project "The Sound of Faraway Lands'.

Throughout the concert, the JISR collective and its talented musicians -- Marja Burchard (Keys, Trombone), Roman Bunka (Oud, Guitar), Mohcine Ramdan (Percussion, Gembri, Vocals), Severin Rauch (Drums), Niko Schabel (Alto Sax, Clarinet, Bass Clarinet), Gergely Lukacs (Trumpet) and Marwan Fakir (Violin) -- mesmerised the audiences with their captivating performances.

From Arabic classical music and poetry to African Gnawa grooves and German Krautrock, Balkan, Jazz, Tango and Andalusian Flamenco -- everything was on the platter.

A group of Bangladeshi guest musicians also performed a number of songs together with JISR. The musicians are Labik Kamal Gaurob (Vocal, Dotara, Khomok), Nazrul Islam (Dhol), Jalal Ahmed (Flute) and Baby Dewan (Vocals, Mondira).
140
The Goethe-lnstitut Namibia on Thursday commenced with the hosting of an exhibition titled, 'Where are we now, by Ericke Tjiueza and Kevin Perestrelo, curated by Efano Efano.

The exhibition is centred on the question of, 'Is Namibia a safe space where we can embrace, celebrate and hold space for the women, children, and LGBTQIA+ community?

The Institut said the immersive multi-disciplinary exhibition is showcasing the photo series, 'Family Portrait' that celebrate trans motherhood and 'Jardin' an intimate series that honours the body, and deconstructs archaic definitions of beauty and gender.

'This is the first of three exhibitions that we will be hosting under our Stage programme for 2022," added the Institut.

Tjiueza and Perestrelo have since invited the public to reflect and ponder, Where we are now? 32 years after Namibian Independence.

The artists will do a walkabout on 30 March at 18:00 and the exhibition will be open on Monday to Thursday from 09:00 to 17:30 on Friday from 09:00 to 14:00 and on Saturdays from 09:00 to 13:00.

Mandisa Rasmeni

Mandisa Rasmeni has worked as reporter at the Economist for the past five years, first on the entertainment beat but now focussing more on community, social and health reporting. She is a born writer and she believes education is the greatest equalizer. She received her degree in Journalism at the Namibia University of Science and Technology (NUST) in June 2021.. She is the epitome of perseverance, having started as the newspaper's receptionist in 2013.
141
 a collective of musicians from Munich - will have its first performance in Kolkata on March 24. The ensemble from Germany has been on a South Asia tour. Hosted by Goethe-institut / Max Mueller Bhavan, Kolkata, the live concert will take place at a city hotel by the river Hooghly. "The tour of the ensemble in South Asia is about the exchange of musical cultures in many ways. Mohcine Ramdan's (the German-Moroccan musician, who is leading the project) project is a melting pot of diverse musical styles and traditions. The musical influences are from Arabic classical music and poetry, African Gnawa grooves to German Krautrock, Balkan, Jazz, Tango and Andalusian Flamenco. JISR's music is an ethnographic snapshot of polyculture music that breaks the boundaries between different musical genres and makes space for musical imaginations," informed a spokesperson from Goethe-institut. According to the organisers, this concert is also an effort to break the confinement and isolation caused due to the pandemic. Earlier, the band performed in Sri Lanka and will also tour other countries in the Indian subcontinent.
142
The subject of the service provision is the operation and further development of OSKA and the UI5 application OLIMP in compliance with the required quality criteria and the IT baseline protection catalogs of the BSI.

A detailed description of the required service can be found in Annex T01 Conditions of Participation for the Participation Competition

Major organization : Goethe-institut E.V. - ZENTRALE

Address : postal address: oskar-von-miller-ring 18 city

: munich

nuts code: de212 munich, district-free city

postal code: 80333

Country :Germany

Email : Dian.Tan@goethe.de

Tender notice number : 116218-2022

Notice type : Tender Notice

Open date : 2022-04-19

Tender documents : T470840875.html , G470840875.html , X470840875.html.
143
Goethe-institut Bangladesh is organizing a special concert titled "JISR Brucke: From The Isar To The Ganges," in partnership with the Embassy of the Federal Republic of Germany in Dhaka and the Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy (BSA) on Tuesday, March 22 at BSA's National Theatre Hall in the capital.

The concert, featuring the German music collective JISR from Munich led by the charismatic linguist, singer, percussionist and Gembri player Dr Mohcine Ramdan, is being organized to celebrate the Mujib Borsho alongside the 60 Years Celebration programme of Goethe-institut in Bangladesh and 50 Years of the Diplomatic Relationship between Bangladesh and Germany, according to the Goethe-institute Bangladesh.

"The Munich ensemble JISR has been invited by the Goethe-institut to tour in Sri Lanka, Pakistan, Bangladesh and India. This concert is especially significant, as it is set to be the first tour by a German music collective in Bangladesh since the pandemic started," the institute said via a press release on Wednesday.

The concert is a part of the project "The Sound of Faraway Lands," and the tour in South Asia is in many ways, about the exchange of musical cultures, according to the organizers.

Mohcine Ramdan's music project is a melting pot of diverse musical styles and traditions. The repertoire of musical influences is considerable: from Arabic classical music and poetry to African Gnawa grooves and German Krautrock, Balkan, Jazz, Tango and Andalusian Flamenco.

The project is described as a snapshot of a musical culture that breaks the boundaries between different musical genres and fills the imagination, unconventionally instrumented and with a great longing for new and unexplored realms of sound.

JISR collective features an ensemble group of talented musicians, and the line-up features Marja Burchard (Keys, Trombone), Roman Bunka (Oud, Guitar), Mohcine Ramdan (Percussion, Gembri, Vocals), Severin Rauch (Drums), Niko Schabel (Alto Sax, Clarinet, Bass Clarinet), Gergely Lukacs (Trumpet) and Marwan Fakir (Violin).

In this concert, a group of Bangladeshi guest musicians will also perform a number of songs together with the JISR and the musicians are Labik Kamal Gaurob (Vocal, Dotara, Khomok), Nazrul Islam (Dhol), Jalal Ahmed (Flute) and Baby Dewan (Vocals, Mondira).

Besides the concert, Goethe-institut Bangladesh will be organizing a multi-disciplinary arts exhibition highlighting cultural projects from across the country with the signature name Goethe Pop Up starting from March 21-23, every day from 3 pm to 8 pm at the Studio space premise, level 8, DrikPath Bhobon, 16 Sukrabad, Panthapath in the capital.

Entry to the concert is free of charge, however, due to the pandemic situation the seating is limited, and the concert-goers are advised to email at Program3-dhaka@goethe.de for the pass.
144
The Munich ensemble "JISR" has been invited by the Goethe-institut to tour in Sri Lanka, Pakistan, Bangladesh and India. On Tuesday, March 22, at 7pm, the band's multi-faceted sound can be experienced live in concert at the National Theatre Hall, Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy premise.

This concert is especially significant, as it is set to be the first tour by a German music collective in Bangladesh since the pandemic started. Entry is free of charge but due to the pandemic, seating is limited, informed a press release.

The ensemble features Marja Burchard, Roman Bunka, Mohcine Ramdan, Severin Rauch, Niko Schabel, and Marwan Fakir.

"The tour in South Asia is, in many ways, about the exchange of musical cultures. Mohcine Ramdan's music project is a melting pot of diverse musical styles and traditions. The repertoire of musical influences is considerable: from Arabic classical music and poetry to African Gnawa grooves and German Krautrock, Balkan, Jazz, Tango and Andalusian Flamenco. A snapshot of a musical culture that breaks the boundaries between different musical genres and fills the imagination, unconventionally instrumented and with a great longing for new and unexplored realms of sound," reads the press release.

In this concert, a group of Bangladeshi guest musicians will also perform a number of songs together with the JISR, including Labik Kamal Gaurob, Nazrul Islam, Jalal Ahmed, and Baby Dewan.

Goethe-institut Bangladesh is organizing this concert, in partnership with the Embassy of the Federal Republic of Germany in Dhaka and the Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy to celebrate the Mujib Borsho, together with the 60 Years Celebration programme of Goethe-institut in Bangladesh, and 50 Years of the Diplomatic Relationship between Bangladesh and Germany.

Beside the concert, Goethe-institut Bangladesh will be organizing a multi-disciplinary arts exhibition highlighting cultural projects from across the country with the signature name Goethe Pop Up starting from March 21 and to continue until March 23, 2022, every day from 3 pm to 8 pm at the Studio space premise, level 8, DrikPath Bhobon, 16 Sukrabad, Panthapath, Dhaka-1207.
145
Panelists at a discussion on Sunday stressed the need for a set of guidelines for the media representatives on the right use of language and proper ways of reporting on the portrayal of women.

Pointing to the portrayal of women in media that objectifies them, the DW Akademie and Goethe-institut Bangladesh organized a series of events between March 6 and March 13, 2022 to discuss the fallacies in such representations of women.

As part of the series, a panel discussion was organized in the capital on Sunday titled 'Communication and portrayal of gender in mainstream media. Would standard guidelines help?'

Dhaka Tribune Editor Zafar Sobhan, Bangla Tribune Chief Correspondent Udisa Islam, Naripokkho Founder Shireen Pervin Huq and feminist Mayabee Arannya were among the panelists.

The discussion highlighted the media's portrayal of women in Bangladesh, and women's roles in religion across South Asia. It also aimed at examining and setting guidelines on how mainstream media can portray gender.

The speakers examined the use of language, stereotyping the representation of minorities and offered guidelines to address these issues and stressed the need for a set of guidelines for the media representatives on the right use of language and proper ways of reporting on the portrayal of women.

The panel discussion was broadcast on Goethe-institut Bangladesh's YouTube Channel.
146
 Operation and further development of "OSKA"

The subject of the service provision is the operation and further development of OSKA and the UI5 application OLIMP in compliance with the required quality criteria and the IT baseline protection catalogs of the BSI.

A detailed description of the required service can be found in Annex T01 Conditions of Participation for the Participation Competition

Major organization : Goethe-institut E.V. - ZENTRALE

Address : postal address: oskar-von-miller-ring 18 city

: munich

nuts code: de212 munich, district-free city

postal code: 80333

Country :Germany

Email : Dian.Tan@goethe.de

Tender notice number : 116218-2022

Notice type : Tender Notice

Open date : 2022-04-04.
147
The Goethe-institut/Max Mueller Bhavan New Delhi has turned the city walls into its canvas to tell stories of art, travel and their coming together in public spaces, while also promoting cross-cultural collaboration between India and Germany

Graphic Travelogues #Murals is a unique collaboration to make art more accessible and democratic, and highlights the cross-cultural collaboration between two young women artists who paint their first-ever mural. The Goethe-institut partnered with St+art India to realise the vision of the project and to take art to the public spaces in Delhi and Chennai, while promoting a creative exchange of ideas on the theme of travel and its evolution during the pandemic.

Artists from across the globe were engaged to create Graphic Travelogues, a digital platform dedicated to comics, focusing on the subject of travel since 2019. Taking this journey to another dimension, Goethe-institut and

St+art launched an open call to invite one German and one Indian artist to collaboratively work on two murals - one in Delhi's Lodhi Art District and the other in Kannagi Art District, Chennai.

The selected artists, Greta Von Richthofen and Aashti Miller, were encouraged to work on thought-provoking ideas about the meaning of 'travel' from a broad lens. During the unprecedented time of the pandemic, when physical travel and any kind of free movement was halted, they found themselves tucked away with their thoughts, and were transported to an ocean of imagination. Thus, the artists explore the idea of 'traveling in the mind' through these murals- seen as a journey that anyone can make, regardless of culture, background, or spatial limitations.

The flying and running fish, and birds playfully depict different ways of traveling: over water, in the air, and on land. This journey seeks to emphasise the sense of discovery that travelling entails, relaying how crucial it is to cultivate inclusive and diverse perspectives for an enriching and meaningful experience of life. Therefore, from an expansive lens to a site-specific one, the artists include hyper-localised elements that become symbolic of this journey.

Depicting local flora and fauna, traditional and historical elements inspired by Mughal architecture and fantastical creatures, the work further explores travel to one's past, through a shared nostalgia. Similarly, in Chennai, the artists make references to the city through a localised and engaging vocabulary.

The murals differ in colour and motifs, but connect to one another by showcasing the positive power and immense possibilities of imagination and creativity, which enters the mind in Chennai and flows out of the hands in Delhi. This conceptual connection thus 'travels' across two diverse cities.

As we all recover and return to the new normal, we might be fish out of the water, but Miller and Richthofen believe that their explorations have taught them to embrace this discomfort and translate it into a magical journey.
148
With an aim to connect a tie between the existing network of feminists in Bangladesh with that of the younger generation, the DW Akademie and Goethe-institut Bangladesh together organized a multimedia art exhibition and conference on Feminism titled 'I Belong' at the premises of DrikPath Bhaban in the capital's Panthapath yesterday.

'Break the rules, smash the patriarchy, I belong too'- symbolizing these ongoing narratives around feminism with what has been done and what needs to be done, we felt the need for a conversation between the older generation who have fought for their rights and the younger generation of feminists who might have new demands. We all came together to offer a platform to understand their perspectives and their desire to contribute to the cause.' shares Kirsten Hackenbroch, Director of Goethe-institut Bangladesh at the opening of the exhibition.

The exhibition curated by photographer and visual artist, Ashfika Rahman that attempts to represent these conversations between everyday women across generations through the exploration of the consciousness around Feminism was opened by speeches from Priya Esselborn, Program Director, Bangladesh (India, Afghanistan), DW Akademie, Farista Mahbub, Economic Affairs Officer, Embassy of the Federal Republic of Germany

In Dhaka, Rubaiyat Hossain, film director, writer and producer and followed by the launch of Aahir Mrittika's book 'The Unforgiving City and I' and poetry recitation performances by various cultural practitioners, including Meheruba Hasin Mohsina Akhter, Musharrat Sharmee Hossain, Aryah Jamil, and Seema Amin.

The event was followed by two panel discussions with established intellectuals and various feminist personalities from Bangladesh and Germany with participants including students of journalism and feminists from diverse professions. The first panel focused on the history of women in Bangladesh and its media projection while the second panel attempted to examine the challenges around communication and portrayal of gender in the mainstream media, offering diverse perspectives on navigating through these challenges.

Through the intense dialogues between established feminists such as Khushi Kabir, Ferdous Azim, Hazera Begum, Taslima Akhter, Rahnuma Ahmed, Shireen Huq, Udisa Islam, Zafar Sobhan issues around the concepts of language used in mainstream media, citizen journalism, organized power structures, lack of portrayal of the struggles behind successful women were raised with young feminists such as Mayabee Arannya, Dalia Chakma, Tasaffy Hossain, Esha Aurora, Shakil Ahmed exploring the challenges around gender roles advertised in commercial media, lack of proper representation of indigenous people and stereotyping in the media. Moreover, the panelists offered solutions to facilitate changes by the representation of diverse voices in the mainstream media through an inclusive manner.

With an objective to connect the youth and young media professionals to the wider feminist community, the conference was live-casted to involve students from outside Dhaka the conference and offered an opportunity for them to ask questions to the panelists.

The exhibition will remain open for all till 8 March 2022, from 3-8pm at the Drik Gallery with workshops to be held by the partner initiatives together with various online panel discussions to further the discourse on contemporary societal questions of feminism in Bangladesh.
149
After completing a intensive four-month training and mentorship programme, 11 participants from Lebanon and Jordan in the food design training programme FABRAKAT will exhibit four alternative food design systems in an exhibition at the Jordan National Gallery of Fine Arts from March 12-15.

The food design systems respond to the training programme's core values of combining social innovation, business development and environmental advocacy, according to a statement from the Goethe-institut Jordan.

The exhibition, Feeding Places, comes as a fruit of the home-grown pilot-programme FABRAKAT which was launched in November 2021 and is based on the 10-year research and practice of design studio Namliyeh in the field, the statement said.

"Developed as an extensive learning journey to think deeply about the connections between food systems and complex social and environmental challenges, the participants have gained both a worldview and a critical understanding of the local context, traditional knowledge and possible food futures," read the statement.

Grouped into different clusters, the participants worked on pre-selected challenges within four industries where food is an integral part: Tourism, hospitality, education and city planning.

The four partners are both public and private stakeholders, namely the Jordan River Foundation's Karma Kitchen, the Greater Amman Municipality, Rum Planet Camp and Aliah Public School, the statement said.

"Our approach stems from the belief that real change comes from multiple-stakeholder design processes that amplify grassroots and indigenous efforts towards food sovereignty, building on cooperation over competition. We advocate for the emergence of alternative decentralised systems that closely link production with consumption," said the architect-duo Aya Shaban and Manal Abushmais, founders of Namliyeh, in the statement.
150
Within the framework of the Frau Architekt exhibition the Goethe-institut Cyprus is organising a fishbowl-discussion examining the question: What does it mean to be a female architect in Cyprus? At the discussion, which will take place on March 12 in the garden of the Goethe-institut in Nicosia, Cypriot women architects presented in the exhibition as well as the wider public will reflect on the Cypriot realities of women in architecture.

The exhibition, which has been extended until March 19, sheds light on the contributions of women in the profession of architecture in Germany and Cyprus over the last 100 years, through the examples of 33 female architects. The exhibition has given space to the participating women architects as well as its visitors, regardless of gender, to reflect on what it means to be a woman architect on a global and local level. As the exhibition itself highlights, the story of architecture is often told without women and these events aim to create more awareness and open a discussion, inviting both women and men to the table.

Among the discussion topics will be the conditions, challenges and opportunities of being a woman architect in Cyprus in the past and present, while opening up space to discuss the future prospects of and for women in the profession. The women architects present will have the opportunity to voice opinions and ideas on important aspects of their professional life. What does it mean to be a woman architect in Cyprus? How have things changed or stayed the same over the past 60 years? How does it connect to global current narratives? And how similar or different is the current situation to other countries?

Dr Anna Papadopoulou will moderate the discussion, in English, where the audience members will also have the opportunity to ask questions as well as share their thoughts and experiences. Papadopoulou is an independent researcher and adjunct faculty at the University of Nicosia, whose work focuses on intersections of architecture and gender, and sustainable practices within architectural education.

An additional guided tour will take place on March 16 at 6pm by one of the curators of the Cyprus chapter, Teresa Tourvas, focusing on the Cypriot women architects presented in the exhibition.

What Does it Mean to be a Woman Architect in Cyprus?

Discussion part of the Frau Architekt exhibition. March 12. Garden of Goethe-institut Cyprus, Nicosia. 11am-12.30pm. In English. Free. Registration required. Tel: 22-674606. kultur-nikosia@goethe.de , www.goethe.de/cyprus.
151
Germany's Frank-Walter Steinmeier and his Senegalese counterpart Macky Sall discussed military and scientific partnerships in a region racked by terrorism and a wave of military coups.

German President Frank-Walter Steinmeier called for (https://www.dw.com/en/eu-reveals-150-billion-investment-plan-for-africa/a-60731816) greater cooperation between Europe and Senegal on Monday as President Macky Sall welcomed him to the capital Dakar with military honors to kick off a three-day trip to the West African nation.

"For all the differences that exist: We must find the way to a closer, fruitful partnership," Steinmeier said after talks with President Sall as he praised the nation for its "key" role as (https://www.dw.com/en/in-senegal-democracy-strengthens-climate-protection/a-40676200) a stable democracy in the region.

Steinmeier added that he hoped to facilitate a "new impetus to the long-standing close partnership between Germany and Senegal."

Senegal wants Germany to keep troops in Mali

Steinmeier spoke of the tense security situation currently dominating the entire Sahel region, (https://www.dw.com/en/west-condemns-deployment-of-russian-mercenaries-in-mali/a-60248015) especially in neighboring Mali.

Sall, as the current chair of the African Union (AU), had spoken about the situation in Mali at length with EU partners in Brussels last week when France announced it would be withdrawing troops in the wake of a military coup there that looks set to cement the power of the ruling junta.

Steinmeier said Germany was "earnestly" weighing its next moves regarding the deployment of troops in the region (https://www.dw.com/en/france-announces-military-withdrawal-from-mali/a-60808218) after France's announced withdrawal.

But (https://www.dw.com/en/europes-troop-withdrawal-leaves-mali-in-limbo/a-60817940) Sall implored, "Mali cannot be abandoned. You have to maintain your presence in the Sahel. Africa needs it," adding, "we need European forces, MINUSMA and Germany in Mali."

(https://www.dw.com/en/macky-sall-if-theres-no-security-in-africa-the-world-wont-be-secure/a-60813079) Germany currently has some 1,170 soldiers deployed to Mali as part of the United Nations peacekeeping mission, known as MINUSMA. A further 328 troops are part of the EU military training mission in Mali, or EUTM.

But France's announcement last week cast the future of Germany's military engagement into doubt. (https://www.dw.com/en/german-defense-minister-skeptical-about-continuing-mali-mission/a-60680804) German Defense Minister Christine Lambrecht is "skeptical" about continued participation in the EU training mission and has questioned whether Germany should remain committed to MINUSMA without French support.

A final decision on the deployment of Bundeswehr soldiers to the region rests with Germany's parliament, the Bundestag, which is scheduled to vote on extending the country's participation in both missions in May.

Neighboring Mali has (https://www.dw.com/en/sahel-terror-threat-persists-despite-the-killing-of-al-sahrawi/a-59205976) struggled to contain an Islamic insurgency that began in 2012 before spreading to Burkina Faso and Niger and triggering a wider destabilization in the region. One reaction has been a wave of military coups across the region.

Thousands of soldiers and civilians have been killed and around two million people displaced by the Sahel-wide conflict with jihadists.

Vaccine cooperation between the EU and Africa

One other major topic of conversation between the two politicians was that of vaccine assistance. Africa has long bemoaned the EU's lack of help when it comes to supplying vaccines against the coronavirus, and more precisely, (https://www.dw.com/en/indias-push-for-covid-vaccine-patent-waiver-hits-eu-roadblock/a-57557338) its refusal to waive patents governing vaccine production.

President Sall was quick to emphasize that Africans are not looking for vaccine handouts, but rather want to be able to make their own jabs.

That now looks more likely after (https://www.dw.com/en/covid-digest-germanys-biontech-unveils-mobile-vaccine-units/a-60805059) German vaccine-maker BioNTech recently unveiled mobile labs that could jumpstart vaccine production in Senegal, Rwanda and South Africa.

Steinmeier, who will visit the site of the new BioNTech facility on Tuesday, said the project, coordinated with the Institut Pasteur de Dakar, could make "vaccines produced for Africa in Africa" a reality.

Steinmeier also laid the cornerstone of Germany's new (https://www.dw.com/en/francis-kere-designs-new-Goethe-institut-in-senegal/a-60827712) Goethe-institut in Dakar Monday. He is only the second German president to make a state visit to Senegal, the first being Heinrich Lübke in 1962.
152


Sultana's Dream, a funding and mentorship grant initiated by internationally acclaimed filmmaker Rubaiyat Hossain, has kicked off its film workshop on February 18.. This mentorship program for women is being held in a hybrid format due to Covid constraints.

Rubaiyat Hossain, Tasmiah Afrin Mou, Philippe Barriere, Barkat Hossain Polash, Seemab Gul, Chaitali Samaddar, Nahid Masud, Saim Sadiq, Meenakshi Shedde, Jonaki Bhattacharya, Mahde Hasan, Aadnan Imtiaz Ahmed and Syeda Iffat Hossain will be serving as instructors.

Monon Muntaka Shova, Laboni Ashrafi, Atoshi Karmaker, Fatiha Taiara, Nusrat Jahan Ishat, Farah Jalil, Farzana Noor, Neha Shamim, Fariah Manar, Risana Tahmin Rahman, Samiha Siddiqui, Farisha Afreen, Mahamuda Aktar Monisha, Pracheta Ahana Alam, Md Shihab and Jahra Najifa Nova have been selected to participate in the workshop.

Inspired by Begum Rokeya, a pioneer of women's education in South Asia, and her 1902 novel Sultana's Dream, the platform strives to connect women across generations through their stories. Film-maker Rubaiyat Hossain earlier talked to Dhaka Tribune Showtime about the importance of such an initiative.

"Sultana's Dream is a platform that I have created to promote filmmaking opportunities for women and to create a gender balance in the cinematic landscape as a whole," she said. "Historically men have been making films about women, telling women's stories, assuming a woman's voice."

"It's time, as women, we intervene in the process of mostly men telling our stories and deciding how we go down in history," she added.

The novel, Sultana's Dream, is a science fiction set in a world where women operate in the public space, and in order to maintain purdah, men have gone into the inner quarters. In Sultana's dream world, subversions are possible and women can take up public space without fear or guilt. As the number of violence against women cases escalate all over Bangladesh, it is of paramount importance for women to put forward their own narratives, take up public imagination with their stories and proclaim their individuality.

The 16 participants will receive basic filmmaking training and guidance for preparing project dossiers and pitching, followed by leadership workshops, script-writing modules and study circles surrounding feminist film history, the female gaze and gendered reading of film texts till June. After the conclusion of the workshop, in July, participants will pitch their short film scripts to an international jury, who will select two projects to receive the Sultana's Dream grant.

The platform will provide mentorship and production support for the selected projects. The short films, which are expected to be finished by the end of the year, will be distributed locally and internationally. Goethe-institut Bangladesh has joined as the distribution partner of this program.

Going forward, Sultana's Dream aspires to arrange mentorship programs for women directors in the South Asian region where they can learn an array of skills from script writing to marketing as well as produce more films from Bangladeshi women.
153
Ernest Peter Fischer presents the award to Manal Ataya Sharjah Museums Authority's (SMA) Director General Manal Ataya has been awarded the Order of Merit by Germany in recognition of her outstanding efforts to enhance the cultural exchanges between Germany and the UAE.

The award was conferred on her by the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, Frank-Walter Steinmeier. German Ambassador to the UAE Ernest Peter Fischer presented the award during a ceremony held at the Sharjah Museum of Islamic Civilization on February 16.

Ataya received the order in recognition of her decade-long commitment and efforts to strengthen the cultural and intellectual links between the UAE and Germany since the signing of a memorandum of understanding (MoU) between SMA and Berlin State Museums in 2013.

The long-standing collaboration has successfully resulted in organizing three major exhibitions titled "The Radiance of Islam, Early Capitals of Islamic Culture, and 'Crossroads: Cultural Exchange between the Islamic Civilization, Europe and Beyond' that showcased exclusive artifacts that were curated by SMA in collaboration with Berlin State Museums.

Another major collaboration that ran parallel to this is the SAWA Museums Studies program, a unique initiative of its kind that was launched in 2015 by SMA in cooperation with Berlin State Museums, Goethe-institut Gulf Region and the University of Applied Sciences (HTW Berlin) for students of museums studies and young museum professionals.

The program, which is funded by SMA and Germany's Ministry of Foreign Affairs, offers participants an opportunity to learn together about diverse museology disciplines through theoretical and practical seminars at renowned museums in Berlin and Sharjah.

SMA has won the "Best Cultural Collaboration" in the International Leading Cultural Destinations Award 2020 and the Humanities Award for 'Promoting the Role and Value of the Humanities in Research, Education and Society' from the Arab-German Young Academy of Sciences and Humanities (AGYA) in Berlin, for its innovative SAWA Museums Studies program.

"I am extremely honoured to be awarded with the Order of Merit of Germany which I dedicate to all my fellow colleagues here and in Germany for their support and hard work that made this partnership so pioneering and successful," said SMA's Director General.

She added: "I wish to thank His Highness Sheikh Dr Sultan bin Mohammed Al Qasimi, Supreme Council Member and Ruler of Sharjah, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in both the UAE and Germany and HE Ambassador Fischer, for all their continued support." - TradeArabia News Service.
154
Online applications invited for two IFA-SOM and two IFA-MM Creative Projects

India Foundation for the Arts (IFA) in collaboration with Star of Mysore (SOM), Mysuru, has invited online applications for two IFA-SOM Creative Projects under its Archives and Museums programme which IFA will implement.

Similarly, IFA in collaboration with Mysuru Mithra (MM), Mysuru, has invited applications for two IFA-MM Creative Projects.

A popular Kannada morning newspaper, MM is the sister publication Star of Mysore, an evening English daily, both papers published by the Academy Newspapers Pvt Ltd, Mysuru.

The Archives and Museums programme of IFA has been initiated with a two-fold objective: To provide arts practitioners and researchers an opportunity to generate new, critical, and creative approaches for public engagement with archive and museum collections; and to energise these spaces as platforms for dialogue and discourse.

The IFA-SOM and IFA-MM Creative Projects offer Project Coordinators the opportunity to engage with and research this archive over a period of a year and create public programmes such as exhibitions, talks, workshops, etc. both online and offline, over the project period, which IFA will implement.

Applications are invited from curators, visual artists, researchers, journalists, writers, performers and other creative practitioners with a strong interest in research and working with archival collections.

Practitioners who are Indian nationals are eligible to apply. Applicants from Mysuru and places close to the city will be given preference as the Project Coordinators will need to spend a considerable amount of time at the archive during the project period.

The deadline for receiving applications for IFA-SOM Creative Projects is March 6 (Sunday) and for IFA-MM Creative Projects is March 7 (Monday).

Interviews of shortlisted candidates are expected to take place in early March 2022.

The project will commence at the end of March 2022 for a period of one year.

Due to the current pandemic situation, applications may be sent via email to Suman Gopinath at: suman@indiaifa.org.

The Archives and Museums programme is part-supported by Goethe-institut / Max Mueller Bhavan, New Delhi.

Published by HT Digital Content Services with permission from Star of Mysore.
155
The Goethe-institut Namibia is inviting visual artists to submit their work for a solo exhibition which they will help to curate and exhibit in March, June and September.

The Institut said the closing date for applications is 20 February and applications should be submitted to culture-windhoek@goethe.de.

"The artwork or body of work should be original and not have been exhibited in its entirety before and this should be the artists first solo exhibition," they explained.

They said that the exhibition applications should have their name, an artist statement of 200 words, a concept or explanation of the work they would like to exhibit, no longer than 350 words.

"Please also submit 5-10 high resolution, clear images of the work that you would like to exhibit along with a caption sheet that includes the size and medium of the work," they concluded.
156
Registration is now open for SAWA Museum Studies Programme, a unique joint programme that was first launched in 2015 by Sharjah Museums Authority (SMA) in cooperation with Goethe-institut Gulf Region, Berlin State Museums and University of Applied Sciences (HTW Berlin) for students of museums studies and young museum professionals.

The 2022 edition of SAWA, which means "Together" in Arabic and runs from March 14th until December 5th, focuses on sustainability in museums.

It will kick off with an online seminar before further physical and virtual workshops, projects, presentations, and seminars taught jointly by German and Arab experts occur between Sharjah and Berlin. The cross-cultural scheme targets UAE, Germany, and the MENA region participants.

Participants will be offered an opportunity to learn about diverse museology disciplines through theoretical and practical seminars at renowned museums in Berlin and Sharjah, as well as networking opportunities amongst fellows and with international experts, who are linked to museums on the Arabian Peninsula and in Europe by their lives, research, or work.

The Berlin State Museums, HTW Berlin and Sharjah Museum Authority will issue a joint certificate.
157
Germany allows relatives of diplomatic staff members in Ukraine to leave country - Foreign Office

BERLIN. Jan 24 (Interfax) - The German Foreign Office has decided to allow relatives of officers of its diplomatic missions in Ukraine to leave the country if they wish to, German Foreign Office spokesperson Christofer Burger said.

"It has been decided to enable family members of officers of German foreign missions in Ukraine and family members of employees of German organizations in Ukraine, for example, the Goethe-institut or DAAD [the German Academic Exchange Service], to leave voluntarily," Burger told journalists on Monday.

If relatives of a German diplomat wish to leave Ukraine, the German Foreign Office will refund their tickets, he said.

Burger did not specify how many people could use this opportunity.
158
At a time when people are oversaturated by online content and communication, See-Saw - the latest art project by Sandbox Collective, is an attempt to create a warmer, more intimate space for artistic exchange.Conducted in association with Goethe-institut, the project aims to collectively reflect on themes of identity, prejudice, people and communities. Conceptualised by Bengaluru-based theatre maker Karen D'Mello, the project that was conducted earlier in November, lasted 10 weeks and featured over 12 Bengaluru-based artists as participants. "The idea was to deeply engage with the themes of 'identity and prejudice' and find a way to do it collectively. Given that the pandemic is still going on and that people can't physically collaborate to create something, the obvious choice would have been to create an online performance or project, but we didn't want to do that," shares Karen.As part of the project, the core team identified 12 artists and paired them anonymously so they can interact with each other using a pseudonym. They were sent a prompt every week, which required them to engage with it in a multisensorial way. While some demanded an activity, some required them to walk around or engage with things such as food. The participants would then create an artistic response to the prompt and mail it to their partners."Some drew, some made music or craftwork, wrote poems --- the responses were not restricted to any one art form. Along with the artwork, they were required to write letters to one another explaining their work and the idea behind it. At the end of 10 weeks, we collected all the artwork and wanted to do something with it. That's how we decided to launch a website where all the artworks will be presented, along with our reflections and insights on the same," shares Karen, adding that this is the first time she's creating a project of this sort. Talking about how she identified the artists for the project, Karen shares that she made sure to pick artists who she didn't know before. "I found them on social media or through friends. The idea was to bring in people of different age groups, social positions, caste, class, religion, gender--- people who come with different kinds of experiences."The website, which will be launched later this week will comprise over 80 artistic pieces, besides notes and letters that were born from the exchange. "The works will be published along with the pseudonyms, but we will reveal the name of the artists who participated in the project on the website. We hope that the site will be a reflection of the whole process and offer a conversation with the artworks by the team."It was a unique creative process, say artists"Every time I got the prompt, I would be scared to open it. But once I did and it was time to create, somehow the ideas would be free-flowing. I went ahead with whatever made me feel deeply, sometimes in the form of video, writing, art, and more. The whole process was about the experience of how you would interact with an audience without really knowing them." - Lavender Hippo (pseudonym)."The whole experience was extremely fresh and different from the usual creative process. We would look forward to every week's prompt, play it in the back of your mind all week until it's time to work on it. I enjoyed responding to each prompt, digging deep, taking time to see how I felt about it. The next step involved deciding how I want to respond to it and what medium to use for that. Since there were no constraints on the medium, I could respond in any way I wanted. I drew, wrote limericks, doodled, created videos and mixtapes, and even tried Mehendi art. I explored multiple mediums that I haven't tried before. It felt liberating." - Loki (pseudonym).
159
Film lovers rejoice! A week of film screenings is coming to Nicosia this month, featuring the best films selected in Berlinale 2021. The Berlinale Selection 2021 is the third edition of the film series organised by the Goethe-institut Cyprus since 2019. The series aims to bring current German cinema to audiences in Cyprus. This year, eight films will be screened, which premiered at the Berlinale in 2021. For the first time, the films will be shown at Pantheon Cinema on the big screen, between January 20 and 27.

Ich bin dein Mensch (Christine Fenzl)

The opening film is Maria Schrader's latest film, I'm Your Man (Ich bin dein Mensch), starring Maren Eggert, who won the Silver Bear for her performance. The film is about the tragicomic and futuristic relationship between a woman and a humanoid robot and will be screened twice on January 20, at 8pm and 10pm.

The following two screenings on January 21 are documentary films that deal with the future of the planet. Who We Were (Wer wir waren), inspired by Willemsen's essay by the same name, is a reflection on the current situation of our world. Six prominent thinkers and philosophers reflect on our times and offer inspiring outlooks for the future. The Dutch-German film Silence of the Tides (Der Atem des Meeres) is a cinematic portrait of Wadden Sea, showing the fragile relationship between humans and nature, captured in magnificent images and incredible sound.

Two of Saturday January 22 films are about children and young people. In Wet Dog (Ein Nasser Hund) audiences experience the meaning that belonging to a group has for young people. Sixteen-year-old Iranian Soheil hides that he is Jewish in order to become a member of a Muslim gang in Berlin. What are young people prepared to do for the acceptance of their peers? Set against the historical backdrop of the Second World War, Dear Mr FÈ­hrer (Das Glasszimmer) is about betrayal and father-son relationships.

Nahschuss (Dirk Hartmann)

Also shown on Saturday is The Last Execution (Nahschuss), with famous actor Lars Eidinger in the lead role. The film is a thriller based on the life of Dr Werner Teske, who was the last person to be sentenced to death and executed in the GDR in 1981. The last execution tells the unsettling story of a man who gets caught up in the mills of a system of injustice and breaks as a result.

Sunday's screenings open with the awarded and highly acclaimed documentary Mr Bachmann and his Class (Herr Bachmann und seine Klasse) that shows that school can be more than a place of knowledge transfer. At 10pm an encore screening of I'm Your Man will be shown and during January 24, 25 and 26, several of the selected films will have repeated screenings.

The film series will conclude on the final day with Fabian -- Going to the Dogs (Fabian oder der Gang vor die Hunde) by Dominik Graf starring Tom Schilling. This film shows the crazy life in Berlin after the world economic crisis and is based on the 1931novel Fabian: The Story of a Moralist by Erich KÈñstner. The book was labelled as "degenerate" by the national socialists and was among the victims of the book burnings. This January it comes back to life through cinema, taking flesh and bone io one of Nicosia's big screens.

Berlinale Selection 2021

A series of German-language film screenings. Organised by Goethe-institut Cyprus in collaboration with Pantheon and supported by the Friends of Cinema Society. January 20-27. Pantheon Theatre, Nicosia. In German with English subtitles. Free admission. www.goethe.de/cyprus/berlinaleselection . 
160
As the 12th Berlin Biennale inches closer, curator Kader Attia has invited Reem Shadid to develop and reimagine the format of the Curators Workshop. According to a statement from the Berlinale, this is coming after a series of successful theme-based workshops held in conjunction with the 4th to 11th editions of the Berlin Biennale.

The statement reveals that this iteration, drawing on Attia's decolonial concept for the 12th Berlin Biennale and its thematic areas, addresses pressing questions about how to place artistic practice at the heart of what we do.

'Invited participants will have the opportunity to discuss these topics in close collaboration with curators, speakers, Berlin Biennale staff, and invited contributors. In collaboration with the Allianz Kulturstiftung, BMW Group, Goethe-institut e. V., and Institut fr Auslandsbeziehungen (ifa), the Berlin Biennale invites a group of eight to twelve early-career curators, educators, and other practitioners to participate in a ten-day workshop,' the statement reads.

It further added that the 'BB12 Curators Workshop: It Speaks to Me' takes language as a departure point to consider where our conversations have gone astray- from one another, our (art) practice, and our lived experiences.

'This insistence on doubting or repurposing language comes from an urgency to understand that language is not just the utterance of content-a mere tool for expression-but constitutes the act of speaking itself. Art innately and persistently searches for adequate forms of language to address, engage, or transcend our current conditions. Rapid shifts in technology and modes of art production and the increased institutionalisation of artistic and curatorial practice have entrapped us in a closed loop that recycles and regurgitates the same language within new and familiar forms, media, and aesthetics.

'Such forms continue to (un)intentionally reproduce decontextualised generic discourses, thus limiting our current conversation and actions. This entrapment also reaffirms our growing rift with (in) lived reality-creating a real sociopolitical imaginary stalemate directly related to language's inadequacy,' it adds.

The 12th Berlin Berlinale is set to run from 6th to 18th of November this year.
161

The Goethe-institut Jordan concluded its activities within the framework of its project funded by the the German Federal Foreign Office "Entrepreneurship in School Practices in Jordan" with a virtual event held online on December 20, 2021.

Representatives from the main partner in Germany, the Institute for Economic Education (IÖB) Oldnburg, and members from partners in Jordan, Queen Rania Teacher Academy, and principles from the partner schools in the project (Al Assriya School, Islamic Educational College, Jubilee School, the Ahliyyah School for Girls and Bishop's School Amman for Boys, AlSaadah College Schools), attended the event, according to a statement from the institute.

The trainers and teachers from both genders who were qualified during the three years of the project participated in the event along with a number of their students that benefitted from the knowledge gained by their teachers and developed their ideas into entrepreneurial projects. They shared their experience from the project during the event.

"We are pleased to see all the participating categories in this event, to hear from them about their experiences, and to learn about the great impact that resulted from participating in this project. This motivates us to move forward to be able to implement such sustainable impact projects that play a major role in enriching knowledge in topics and areas that serve the individual and society," said Laura Hartz, director of the Goethe-institute Jordan.

Michael Koch, Deputy Scientific Director and Managing Director at the Institute for Economic Education (IÖB)- Oldenburg-Germany, said that this project was not just about transferring knowledge and experiences from Germany to Jordan but was considered an exchange of knowledge and experiences between both parties, as participants from Jordan have contributed to this "wonderful result" with their experience in teaching and their deep knowledge in many related topics.

Abdelmajeed Shamlawi, Executive Director of Strategic Affairs at Queen Rania Teacher Academy, spoke about the joint work with the German partner, and the steps and discussions through which training materials for trainers and teachers were prepared over the three years of the project and working on them to match the standards and environment in Jordan.

The principles and representatives from the schools partnering in the project spoke during the event about the benefit that the teachers and students gained from participating and how it positively reflected on their schools.

The year 2021 is the last year of the "Entrepreneurship in School Practices in Jordan" project that started back in 2019, and was implemented by the Goethe-institut Jordan and funded by the German Federal Foreign Office.
162
In recent years, Chennai Photo Biennale (CPB), the two-month-long celebration of photography and art has emerged as a distinct lens clarifying the role of imagery in important juncturesagainst landmark physical spaces, around important conversations, and complimenting powerful films and video art.As Shuchi Kapoor, one of the founding members of CPB says, ôIt is important that we relook at photography; go beyond the frame on the wall or on Instagram to a language that reflects the dystopias around us û environmental degradation, migration; things we learn about every day on the internet and newsprint. Through this edition, we are enabling newer ways to think and converse about them.öWhich is why, after a year of being withheld, CPB's third edition explores the hybrid format to its most creative potential with photobased work, and the literature and conversations around them presented in five compelling formats ùphysical shows, digital shows, online journals, newsprint and as films. The edition is titled 'Maps of Disquiet', and curated to reflect the exigencies of our times - resisting majoritarian impositions, ecological collapse, and technological dystopias. It has been curated by Arko Datto, a visual artist from Kolkata, Boaz Levin, artist and curator from Berlin, Bhooma Padmanabhan, curator from Chennai, and Kerstin Meincke, curator and researcher from Essen, Germany.The physical shows are open at seven handpicked venues û Forum Art Gallery, Ashvita's Gallery, Roja Muthiah Research Library, Madras Literary Society, Goethe-institut/MMB Chennai, with Dakshinachitra and the Government Museum showcasing the Foundation's projects. The digital showcase opened earlier this week featuring 37 exhibiting artists, along with their second journal and podcasts. ôWe looked at it as a way for diverse audiences to really take in the work, pause and reflect on them, at a time when we are hurrying past the deluge on Instagram,ö says Shuchi.Kolkata's documentary photographer Soumya Sankar Bose for instance, has created a body of work on the Marichjhapi massacre, which can be viewed along with a film on the event also made by him. Andreas Langfeld and Sarabhi Ravichandran's photo work explores the Keeladi excavation, viewing it as a process of shaping and negotiating cultural identity and historical narratives.In the coming weeks, virtual guided tours, photo book launches, interaction with jurors and student engagement programmes will be presented on the hybrid model, leading all the way up to February 6, 2022. To navigate the events and learn more, go to chennaiphotobiennale.com.
163
Framework contract for active network components of the company cisco meraki a detailed description of the required performance can be found in the annexes to these tender conditions, in particular in annexes 10, 11 and 12.When equipping or re-equipping its global locations, the Goethe-institut only uses hardware from the network equipment provider cisco meraki, which is managed, monitored and administered centrally via the meraki cloud. this includes various product groups that are specifically listed in the appendix to the tender documents for the network hardware that is already in use and centrally managed, only the manufacturer cisco meraki is taken into account.

Major organization : Goethe-institut E.V. - ZENTRALE

Address : oskar-von-miller-ring 18

Country :Germany

Email : alexander.tuster@goethe.de

Tender notice number : 655717-2021

Notice type : Tender Notice

Open date : 2022-02-02.
164
With the tender, the Goethe-institut intends to award a service contract for a strategic and structural transformation process. the aim of the transformation process is to maintain and develop the effect of the Goethe-institut through optimal processes and structures. a detailed description of the required performance can be found in appendix a "performance description"service contract for a strategic and structural transformation process to concretise the current challenges, possible fields of intervention were defined and objectives were developed. these serve as working hypotheses in the transformation process. the first task of the transformation process will be to analyze the status quo and to further develop the fields of intervention in line with the statutes, vision and strategy.

Major organization : Goethe-institut E.V. - ZENTRALE

Address : oskar-von-miller-ring 18

Country :Germany

Email : karen.langer@goethe.de

Tender notice number : 640932-2021

Notice type : Tender Notice

Open date : 2022-01-18.
165
During the special workshop, fashion-designer, artist and an environmentalist Mahenaz Chowdhury and the young participants created colourful sock puppets

The Science Film festival that began its 3rd edition on October 1 dropped its curtain on Tuesday, December 21. This edition, the festival traveled through places, space and brought critical thinking among academicians and educators.

The partners for this year's festival were Aspire to Innovate (A2i), Brac Education Programme, JAAGO Foundation, Teach for Bangladesh (TFB), Netz Bangladesh, UNESCO, Independent University, Bangladesh, PASCH-Schools: Partners for the Future Maple Leaf International School, Oxford International School (OIS), Mastermind International School in Chittagong.

As an integrated part of the Festival, Goethe-institut Bangladesh associated with educators and scientists to conduct a number of exciting workshops for teachers, mentors and educators in a bid to promote efficient learning methodologies.The science educators introduced various classroom activities which teachers can conduct with their students. All school partners actively participated by holding online or offline screenings and guiding kids through the experiments.

During the special workshop, fashion-designer, artist and an environmentalist Mahenaz Chowdhury and the young participants created colourful sock puppets.

Independent University, Bangladesh conducted a day long Science Film Festival celebration with film screening, workshop and discussion on science films with filmmakers and film students.

Science Film festival 2021| Courtesy

The Science Film Festival associated with GUB this year for an exciting workshop with Scientist Maike Fritz. GUB promotes early childhood education in the field of natural sciences. In the hour-long science workshop, Maike demonstrated how to build an environmentally friendly castle with peas, draw with flowers and make air visible.

For the first time this year, the festival has conducted its own quiz show. SFF 2021 was opened to students of Grades 9-12 across 5 (five) countries: Bangladesh, India, Iran, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka. The third phase of the country finale of the quiz was held on December 6 which revealed winner Md Masudur Rahman (Khulna Public College, Khulna) and runner up Abdullah Al Masud (Maple Leaf International School, Dhaka) from Bangladesh.

During the closing ceremony, the theme of SFF 2021- Equal Opportunity in Science was officially announced.

During the closing ceremony of the festival on 21 December 2021, Dr Kirsten Hackenbroch said, 'As the German saying goes, good things take time to consolidate. With the help of our partners, the festival in its 3rd edition reached diverse places in the country and is consolidating. Despite the challenges, we implemented a mixed online and offline form of the festival. We value the suggestions of our partners and hope to incorporate them in our upcoming festival.'

The concluding section of the ceremony discussed the objectives of SFF 2022, which is to be held from October-December 2022 with the Bangladeshi partners.
166
Entertainment Desk :

The Science Film festival that began its third edition on October 1 dropped its

curtain on December 21 night. Throughout this time, the festival traveled through places, space and brought critical thinking among academicians and educators. The partners for this year's festival are Aspire to Innovate (A2i), Brac Education Programme, JAAGO Foundation, Teach for Bangladesh (TFB), Netz Bangladesh, UNESCO, Independent University, Bangladesh, PASCH-Schools: Partners

for the Future Maple Leaf International School, Oxford International School

(OIS), Mastermind International School in Chattogram. As an integrated part of the festival, Goethe-institut Bangladesh associated with educators and scientists to conduct a number of exciting workshops for teachers, mentors and educators has been arranged to promote efficient learning methodologies. Through the workshop intend to promote shared and new modes of learning which might be implemented in the physical classroom setup. Science educators introduced various classroom activities which teachers can conduct with their students. All school partners actively participated by holding online or offline screenings and guiding kids through the experiments. During special workshop, fashion-designer, artist and an environmentalist Mahenaz Chowdhury and the young participants created colourful

sock puppets. Independent University, Bangladesh (IUB) conducted a day long Science Film Festival celebration with film screening, workshop and discussion on science films with filmmakers and film

students. The Science Film Festival associated with GUB this year for workshop with Scientist Maike Fritz. For the first time this year, the festival has conducted its own quiz show.
167
For the third year in a row, the German Cultural Institute (Goethe) continues its activities within the framework of its project "Entrepreneurship in School Practices in Jordan" funded by the German Foreign Ministry.

The institute's project team arranged visits to the schools partnering in the project along with a member from the supervision team from Cairo, according to a statement from Goethe-institut.

The team visited Al Asriya School, Islamic Educational College, Jubilee School, Al Mutran and Ahliyyah Schools and Al Saada School, and reviewed the process of work on the schools' projects that were funded by the project during its three years.

The students in the schools from both genders started working on developing ideas for innovative projects after teachers in charge attended training courses on entrepreneurship.

"The goal behind teaching the students entrepreneurship is not just for them to be aware of it and establish profitable projects, but rather to acquire entrepreneurial skills such as problem solving, creative thinking, team work, analysing and developing ideas, thinking outside the box and building a generation that faces society's challenges ... and contributes to overcoming and solving them in a sustainable way," said Laura Hartz, the director of the Goethe-institute Jordan.

The students in the partnering schools implemented various projects including those that focused on preserving the environment, such as the water saving project implemented by Al Asriya School students, the organic garden project implemented by the students of Al Mutran and Ahliyyah Schools, and the greenhouse project for agriculture implemented by the students of the Jubilee School.

The students of Al Saada School implemented the soap and gifts project and the students of Islamic Educational College implemented many projects including the healthy food project, the waste recycling project for décor and accessory creations.

The students from the participating schools presented many of their innovative and entrepreneurial ideas and expressed their desire to continue developing them to become effective projects in the community, the statement said.
168
Why is the sky blue? Why do mussels rustle? How does an unmanned car drive? There are an infinite number of questions a child asks themselves every day - and some of them are so complicated that only professors can answer them. That is why the Goethe-institut developed the Digital Children's University , a free online platform that is available to all children - regardless of where they live or school, their parents' level of education or their financial resources. The Digital Children's University thus makes an important contribution to access to education.

The Digital Children's University is an innovative project that promotes the innate curiosity of children and teaches them creative thinking. It is designed for young students between the ages of eight and 12 and gives them the opportunity to get to know different areas of science and to recognise tendencies towards scientific fields at an early stage.

The Digital Children's University is similar in structure to a normal university with three faculties: Humanities, Nature and Technology. The content of the lectures comes from the successful German TV series Die Sendung mit der Maus . The video sequences were made available by WDR and implemented on the learning platform of the Goethe-institut. Christoph Biemann, the inventor of the Sendung mit der Maus series, will be involved in the moderation, as will the characters Professor Einstein and his assistant Sophie Schlau. In the eight-to-10-minute lectures, the children can get to know subject areas, find answers to their questions and learn their first words in German.

The Digital Children's University combines several educational approaches and methods that are currently among the most progressive.

Child-friendly learning

The Digital Children's University does not force the child to learn, but arouses their interest in a child-friendly, playful way. This strengthens their motivation and self-discipline while learning. Passive and active sequences alternate: after each lesson an area opens up with tasks that encourage the child to make the necessary connections, to draw parallels and to think creatively. The tasks are divided into two categories: content and language.

Foreign language

Foreign language skills are one of the main competencies of the 21st century. The earlier a child learns a foreign language, the more likely it is that they will master it without any major difficulty and later use it without an accent. That is why scientific learning at the Digital Children's University is accompanied by getting to know the German language. Alongside English, it is the most important language in the scientific community and the most widespread in Europe. With every new foreign language, children gain knowledge of the world, gain access to tolerance, international competence and also train their brains. The latest methods such as "CLIL" (Content and Language Integrated Learning) or Sprachbad make learning the German language exciting for children and generate motivation.

Professor Einstein and Sophie Schlau speak English with the young students who do not yet understand a word of German, but occasionally add German words to their sentences. If the child has already started to learn German, Professor Einstein and Sophie speak German beginner level; English or German subtitles can be displayed for better understanding.

Media expertise

The online format not only makes the Children's University accessible to everyone, but also teaches the children the basics of media skills, which are inevitable in modern societies. As a rule, children between the ages of eight and 12 are already able to handle mobile devices, which they primarily use to play. The online university, however, requires more complex handling of computer-aided technologies, which will facilitate their further use in the future. Gamification - the use of playful elements in actually non-playful situations - helps children to learn without overexerting themselves. That is why the Children's University is set up like a game. The children collect badges and thus reach the next level - from students to bachelor's degrees, master's and doctoral degrees to professors.

A kids' university at home, in school or in the suitcase

In addition to the online format, the Digital Children's University is also available for learning in school: 'Sets' with didactic materials have been developed for teachers who want to make their German lessons more interesting and worth knowing.

In addition to the online format, the Digital Children's University is also available for learning in school. There is also the children's university in an inventor's case - with games, quizzes and experiments.
169
Marcus Rudolf Axt will remain artistic director in Bamberg until 2028. The Board of Trustees of the Bamberg Symphony Foundation - Bavarian State Philharmonic Orchestra has approved the relevant contract extension. "The early extension of the contract shows the appreciation for the outstanding work of Marcus Rudolf Axt in recent years," emphasized Art Minister Bernd Sibler yesterday afternoon at the signing ceremony in the Bavarian Ministry of Art in Munich. Axt, who has been Artistic Director of the Bamberg Symphony since 2013, will continue his artistic stance for another five years until 2028. One of its central tasks will be the further development of the multifaceted and innovative program for this artistically outstanding orchestra. Under his directorship, the Bamberg Symphony has played its way into the hearts of a large audience. A wide range of offers and a modern focus opens up broad access to music. I am therefore very pleased that Marcus Rudolf Axt will continue to lead this extraordinary orchestra, said the Minister of Art.

In view of the contract extension, the old and new artistic director emphasized: Being artistic director of the Bamberg Symphony is one of the most beautiful tasks in music management in Germany, full of exciting challenges with regard to the changes in the classical music industry in the coming years. It is a great honor and pleasure for me to be able to work for the Free State for another five years in this position and to lead this top orchestra into the future together with its chief conductor Jakub Hr?a. "

"In Marcus Rudolf Axt I have found a fantastic partner in our artistic company, with whom it is a great pleasure to work", said chief conductor Jakub Hr?a, commenting on the contract extension. It is also the reason why I started this wonderful Bamberg path. It is seldom the case in the world that one experiences such excellently functioning management. Marcus Rudolf Axt is a guarantee that we have this privilege in Bamberg. "

To person:

Marcus Rudolf Axt has been Artistic Director of the Bamberg Symphony Orchestra - Bavarian State Philharmonic Orchestra since August 2013. During its tenure in Bamberg so far, the orchestra has received awards including the best concert program of the season (2017/18) and the Bavarian State Prize for Music (2020). In 2014 he set up the Bamberg Symphony Foundation.

Marcus Rudolf Axt comes from Straubing and studied musicology, theater studies and German at the Universities of Bayreuth and Bologna. Already during his studies he did internships at the Teatro Comunale di Bologna and at the Komische Oper Berlin. He was also head of the artistic office of the International Youth Festival Meeting in Bayreuth. In 1997/98 he was employed as a consultant for special tasks at the Schleswig-Holstein Music Festival. From 1998, as head of the concert organization and personal advisor to the artistic director, together with Franz Willnauer, he set up the traditional Bonn Beethoven Festival as a four-week annual festival in autumn.

In 2003, under the new management of Ilona Schmiel, he took over the management of the artistic operations and was also responsible for the program planning of the Beethoven Festival. In 2005 he became orchestra manager of the Bamberg Symphony and in 2008 was appointed director of concert planning for the Berlin Philharmonic.

He was a long-time correspondent for the Kulturmanagements Networks and led various workshops for culture and orchestra management, among others for the Goethe-institut, the Festival of Young Artists Bayreuth and the Kronberg Academy.

170
Contract notice: transformation process "shaping the future. goethe 2025"

With the tender, the Goethe-institut intends to award a service contract for a strategic and structural transformation process. the aim of the transformation process is to maintain and develop the effect of the Goethe-institut through optimal processes and structures. a detailed description of the required performance can be found in appendix a "performance description"service contract for a strategic and structural transformation process to concretise the current challenges, possible fields of intervention were defined and objectives were developed. these serve as working hypotheses in the transformation process. the first task of the transformation process will be to analyze the status quo and to further develop the fields of intervention in line with the statutes, vision and strategy.

Major organization : Goethe-institut E.V. - ZENTRALE

Address : Oskar-von-Miller-Ring 18

Country :Germany

Email : karen.langer@goethe.de

Url : www.goethe.de

Tender notice number : 640932-2021

Notice type : Tender Notice

Open date : 2022-01-18.
171
Entertainment Report :

A day-long exhibition presenting the project outcome by the three residency participants of the smARTer Digital Realities (SDR) project was held on December 13 at the level 2 of DrikPath Bhaban in the capital's Panthapath area. Dr Kirsten Hackenbroch, Director, Goethe-institut Bangladesh, inaugurated the exhibition and also thanked the three residency participants and the facilitator from Dhaka for their outstanding contribution to this regional project and skillfully presenting its outcome through this day-long show. Later, the three participants gave a talk to share their exciting experiences and took through the residency programme to the attending audience. Artist Najmun Nahar Keya supported the SDR project as the Facilitator from Dhaka and the three residency participants from Bangladesh are Jewel A Rob, Sadia Marium and Faiaz Rafid.
172
KinoGerManija Days of German Cinema will be held in Bishkek on December 14-16, the German Embassy reports citing the Goethe-institut in Kazakhstan. Films by famous German directors will be screened during the event in original language with Russian subtitles. The event kicks off on December 14 at 7pm in Cosmopark mall with the film Me and Kaminski. The following movies will be also screened: Dec. 15, 5 p.m. Amelie Rennt (Germany/Italy 2017, 97 min.); Dec.15, 7 p.m. Over the Limit (Germany/France 2017, 106 min.); Dec. 16, 5 p.m. Too Far Away (Germany 2019, 88 min.); Dec. 16, 7 p.m. Greetings from Fukushima (Germany 2016, 104 min.). Entrance is free.
173
Contract notice: framework contract: learning support in the online language course "deutsch online individual" at the Goethe-institut

The subject of the advertisement is the learning support in the online language course "german online individual" of the Goethe-institut. the order is divided into a total of 5 lots. completion deadlines ".Online teacher to accompany a participant in the online language course "german online individual" learning guidance and support from the online teacher are generally in german: courses at levels a1, a2, b1, b2 and c1online teacher to accompany a participant in the online language course "german online individual" learning support by the online teacher is generally in german, if necessary she provides support in english: courses at levels a1, a2 and b1

Major organization : Goethe-institut E.V. - ZENTRALE

Address : oskar-von-miller-ring 18

Country :Germany

Email : gabriela.kurz@goethe.de

Tender notice number : 585195-2021

Notice type : Tender Notice

Open date : 2021-12-13.
174
The German Cultural Institute (Goethe) for the third year held a training course for male and female trainers in May and two other training courses in August and October, 2021, within the framework of its project "Entrepreneurship in School Practices in Jordan", funded by the German Foreign Ministry.

In the trainings, male and female trainers and teachers participated from The Queen Rania Teacher Academy and from the schools partnering in the project, according to a Geoth-Institut statement sent to The Jordan Times.

The German Institute for Economic Education in Oldenburg in Germany was the main partner that supervised the implementation of the project.

"Participants in the training of trainers' course acquired knowledge in the field of entrepreneurship including the possibility of integrating entrepreneurship to become part of general education in schools due to its importance for individuals", said Laura Hartz, Director of the Goethe-institute Jordan in the statement.

The trainers also discussed various topics on how to use the entrepreneurship concepts in schools; not only in economic related topics as entrepreneurship is linked to all areas of life.

The skills included within entrepreneurship can be benefitted in many subjects in schools, said the statement.

The participants as they have started using some of the skills in special teaching methods and started to innovate ways to help them teach their subjects; such as including examples from the real life, how to develop a new idea, problem solving skills and other skills.

After the preparation process, which lasted from June to the beginning of August 2021, the trainers applied the acquired knowledge by supervising the first part of the teacher training course.

The first part of the course was held in the second half of August, with the participation of teachers from the in-service training program from The Queen Rania Teacher Academy, as well as a number of teachers from the schools partnering in the project.

During the first part of the course in August, the trainers explained the first three units, which are: Develop the project's idea, analyse the market and build a plan for the project. Then, the participants in the teacher training course were given a practical space that lasted until October to prepare and develop a project idea, analyse the market and prepare a project plan.

The second part of the teacher training course was held in October and the participants presented their ideas and project plans that they had prepared.

The second part of the training covered the following topics: Finding innovative solutions and managing decisions, organising the company or project, accounting and budgets.

After concluding the training of trainers course and the teachers' training course, all participants emphasised the extent to which they benefited from the acquired knowledge and began to integrate it into their own teaching methods as well as on a personal level.

It is worth mentioning that the year 2021 is considered the last year for the project "Entrepreneurship in School Practices in Jordan", and the continuation of activities related to entrepreneurship will remain the focus of discussions with the partners in the project as it plays a significant role in all areas of life.
175
The 19th Kalpanirjhar International Short Fiction Film Festival, organised by Kalpanirjhar Foundation and Goethe-institut / Max Mueller Bhavan Kolkata and supported by Caring Minds (Patton group), began on Tuesday. The festival, being held at the Satyajit Ray Auditorium of Indian Council For Cultural Relations, will continue till Saturday and showcase a variety of short fiction films from several countries.National Award winners Anjan Bose, Sourav Sarangi and Sabarni Das have served as the jury members of the festival that is screening 80 films from 25 countries. While the duration of the shortest film is 13 seconds, the longest is 30 minutes. Ten short-listed Indian films will be competing for the Patton award for the Best Indian Film and the Kalpanirjhar award for the Second Best Indian film. Among them are '3C48', 'Bedsores', 'Electric Towers that Swallow Stories', 'Hunger', 'Nirmalya', 'Piklu', 'Prashna', 'Safar', 'Suranga' and 'The Red Cap'.The highlights of the festival include the world cinema segment, the New Generation Short Tiger 2021 meets Kalpanirjhar, the Kurz.Film.Tour and a special tribute to film-maker Buddhadeb Dasgupta. ôWe will be screening Buddhadeb's 'Iistition' on Saturday. This short film was based on the suggestion by Sohini Dasgupta. It was his 2012 adaptation of a Tagore work,ö said festival director Raju Raman.ôI salute the indomitable spirit of the film-makers whom pandemic could not stop from pursuing their creativity. Showcasing 80 short films of duration 30 seconds to 30 minutes from 25 countries will re-ignite and re-energise the spirit of life,ö said MDûPatton group Sanjay Budhia.
176
A total of 13 participants from Lebanon and Jordan have been selected out of 72 applicants to take part in a new learning experience within the food design programme FABRAKAT.

FABRAKAT is a new training programme on food design that was launched in November 2021 by Goethe-institut Jordan in partnership with design studio Namliyeh.

It targets young creative minds, who are active within a variety of industries that food is an integral part of, including but not limited to: Tourism, urban planning, education, agriculture and hospitality, according to a statement from Geothe-Institut Jordan.

With a focus on food design, this transdisciplinary programme combines social innovation, business development and environmental advocacy to create impactful change within food systems, read the statement.

The programme seeks to qualify the participants and strengthen their opportunities within the diverse food industry. This will be achieved through tailored mentorship and training that the participants will be offered throughout the programme.

High-profile experts in the field of food design and entrepreneurship will be leading the training modules, including Francesca Zampollo, Safa Hijazeen and Mohammad Ajlouni.

FABRAKAT is the second element of the food design programme FOOD: FABRIK, which is an extensive programme initiated by the Goethe-institut Jordan in 2020. The programmes encourage the development of practical and theoretical knowledge about the emerging discipline of food design as part of the creative industries.

The food sector is economically the largest in the world yet it is facing urgent problems that design can help address.

Design processes intersect throughout the food cycle; from sourcing to production to consumption and all the way to disposal. For that reason, it holds great potential for entrepreneurial, social, environmental and artistic interventions, the statement said.

"FABRAKAT is a unique programme that gives designers and creatives a great learning opportunity as well as hands-on experience in the multifaceted food industry, by introducing the participants to businesses and associations wishing to implement design competencies within their line of work," said Laura Hartz, director of Goethe-institut Jordan.

"We aim to create a knowledge-producing programme that continues to evolve with each edition, fostering a technical and social ecosystem that mobilises designers to lead impactful change in their community," said architect-duo Aya Shaban and Manal Abushmais founders of Namliyeh.

The journey of FABRAKAT will conclude in early March 2022 with food system design interventions in participation with both the private and public sectors, working closely with stakeholders within diverse contexts to implement food-focused business models, projects, experiences and products.

Goethe-institut is the Federal Republic of Germany's cultural institute, active worldwide.

Namliyeh is a food and design studio based in Amman, led by Aya Shaban and Manal Abushmais.
177
One of the themes of three installations presented by Pickle Factory and Goethe-institut/Max Mueller Bhavan at an ongoing event in the city is finding a permanent home for dance by advocating readaptive use of the city's Grade 1 heritage buildings.Astrid Wege, director of Goethe-institut/Max Mueller Bhavan Kolkata, said, ôCulture needs spaceto unfold, meet, learn from each other, and make new experiences. Goethe-institut sees itself as an enabler of such space , and is happy to embark on the journey to a new 'Home for Dance'an initiative of our partner, Pickle Factory, to envision a much-needed venue for contemporary dance and culture in Kolkata.öVikram Iyengar, founderdirector of Pickle Factory, told TOI the idea is to bring together dancers, visual designers and architects to ôimagine how to repurpose existing buildings in the city into venues for danceö.Dancer Paramita Saha and scenographer Swarup Dutta were intrigued by the chequered history of Thonthonia Thakurbati that has seen both 'nautch' and 'palagaan' existing in the same space. ôIn this 300-year-old house belonging to Biharilal Mitra, there existed a dedicated place for nautch. Later, Mitra's mother established a Radhmadhab temple with an idol that is now 500 years old,ö Saha said. In their installation, various spaces of the Thakurbati, like the courtyard, baithak, mandir dalan, naachghar and terrace, have been reimagined as part of a 'Home for Dance'.In their installation titled 'Of dust and clayà', Odissi dancer Monami Nandy and architect Sayantan Maitra have focused on an old Chinese school in Tangra. ôWe tried to explore this space to see if it can be turned into an ideal home for dance,ö Maitra said.The installation of performance-based researchers Upasana Das and Abanti Banerjee, titled 'The Tunnel of body-hood in the making', imagines a space in the city which includes the marginalized queer community. ôAs a dancer, I have realized that performative space is super-liminal and it allows gender fluidity. Our installation spreads awareness to accept this fact,ö Banerjee said.
178
The Chennai Photo Biennale will be the only biennale to be launched in India this year and will commence on December 9 and continue till February 6. Themed on the "Maps of Disquiet", which will fundamentally aim at creating awareness about the mind churning social, environmental and technological exigencies of life, the Biennale is curated by personalities such as Arko Datto, Bhooma Padmanabhan, Baoz Levin and Kerstin Meincke.Returning to Chennai in its new hybrid physical-digital format, there are going to be a wide range of engaging programmes such as physical exhibitions and digital screenings at various established galleries and spaces across Chennai. Moreover, international student workshops, artists talks and virtual exhibitions will be conducted to connect to a larger audience.The Chennai Photo Biennale has recently launched an online journal titled 'Through the Glass Darkly' on November 27, an amalgamation of podcasts, writing and illustrations representing apprehensions during lockdown, the aftermath of natural disasters and the relevance of images in the present day. The second journal titled 'Maps of Disquiet' will be launched on December 4.Exhibitions in Chennai will be at Forum Art Gallery, Ashvita's Gallery, Roja Muthiah Research Library and Madras Literary Society along with hybrid screenings of video works at Goethe-institut.Founded and organised by the CPB Foundation and the Goethe-institut/ Max Mueller Bhavan, Chennai, one of the key highlights are the online journals conceptualised in the run up to the Biennale."CPB Edition 3 is an act of resistance at a time when the world is struggling to find normalcy. We are excited to deliver ground-breaking exhibitions by celebrated artists across both physical and digital formats. Spread across seven venues in Chennai, two distinct digital platforms, and a signature print publication, the third edition will feature the works of over 50 artists and contributors from 11 countries spanning a 60-day period," says Varun Gupta, director of Chennai Photo Biennale.
179
Sixteen films from eight countries, a panel discussion, and play, all dealing with issues of sexuality and gender - the ninth edition of 'Reel Desires: Chennai International Queer Film Festival (CIQFF)' will showcase all this and more.The festival, which went online last year due to the pandemic, will be held online over two weekends -- December 4 to 5 and December 11 to 12."We don't believe the time is right for a large offline gathering. We decided on the two-weekend format as we wanted to space it out. It will help get people's attention rather than trying to get them glued to a computer screen for several hours," says Felix, a volunteer with Orinam, which along with Goethe-institut, Nirangal Charitable Trust, Chennai Queer Cafe, SAATHII, and East-West Center for Counselling and Training is organising CIQFF 2021.The festival, which will feature films, shorts, and documentaries, will be held online from 6pm to 9pm. It will host the India and South Asia premiere of the documentary 'Emergence: Out of the Shadows' by filmmaker Alex Sangha."The documentary is about people from India and other South Asian countries who have made their life in Canada, their struggles to balance their different identities - being south Asia or part of the LGBTQIA+ community - and the absence of family support as well as how other supportive parents of LGBTQIA children have come forward to embraced other children," says L Ramakrishnan from the NGO SAATHII and a volunteer with Orinam. The screening of the documentary on December 5 will be followed by a virtual panel discussion with the filmmaker and some families of LGBTQIA people from Chennai.The shorts include 'Libre: A Celebration of Queer Body' by Arthur Lopes, 'Sivanum Mohiniyum' by Ramakaushalyan, 'My Mother's Girlfriend' by Arun Phulara, 'Do I know You?' by Rioghnach Ni Ghrioghair, and 'Maccher Jhol' by Abhishek Verma.The feature films include 'The First Summer' an Australian coming of age film written and directed by Katie Found; and 'Futur Drei'/'No Hard Feelings' directed by Faraz Shariat, on the experiences of queer migrants trying to find belongingness in Germany."We have collaborated with Equal Ground, an LGBTQIA organisation in Sri Lanka, and they have shared some Sinhalese and Tamil films made there," says Felix.On December 11, CIQFF 2021 will showcase a dramatic reading of a play, 'Journey from A to E and more' by transgender activist Rumi Harish. "He is also a Hindustani classical musician, and he will be sharing his experiences as a transgender man. For instance, when he started taking male hormones, the pitch of his voice changed and the title of the performance is a reference to it," says Ramakrishnan. "The reading will also explore how he reconciled his life as a classical musician with the conservative culture that goes with classical music as well as TG activism, which requires interacting with other marginalised communities, such as sex workers. The play is about how he brought different aspects of his life, art and activism, together and it will be in multiple languages such as Tamil, English, Malayalam, Kannada and Telugu."Login details will be posted at ciqff.org. The event is free and open to individuals aged above 18.
180
Allocation of cataloging of the media holdings to the libraries of the Goethe-institut abroad and operation, hosting, further development and second-level support for the cloud-based open source library software kohalos 1: composite cataloging 2: open source library software kohaContract No. 21/202111

Contractor name : BIBLIOTHEKSSERVICE-ZENTRUM-BADEN-WRTTEMBERG (BSZ)

Implementing agency : Goethe-institut e.V.

Oskar-von-Miller-Ring 18

Mnchen

80333

DE

Edda.Hubatsch@goethe.de

www.goethe.de

Country :Germany.
181
Women in architecture. This is the focus of an exhibition coming to Goethe-institut Cyprus this month, paying tribute to their role across 100 years. The Frau Architekt exhibition examines the history of women in architecture in Germany and Cyprus over the last century, through the example of 33 female architects.

The exhibition, which was first presented at the Deutsches Architekturmuseum in Frankfurt, has been expanded with the addition of Cypriot portraits curated by Teresa Tourvas and MÈ­ge Riza. Frau Architekt will be on show at the event hall of the Goethe-institut from December 7 until February 5.

The history of architecture of the last 100 years is also a history of women architects. The exhibition examines the achievements of women in the field of architecture in Germany and Cyprus, their everyday reality and their struggle to establish equal professional opportunities. It explores the thematic through 33 portraits -- 22 from Germany and 11 from Cyprus -- with examples of projects and personal stories of women who have influenced and are still significantly influencing architecture.

"Starting from the generation of a few pioneering women," say organisers, "who at the beginning of the 20th century broke taboos about male-dominated professions, we reach the present day and a new generation of women who are developing important architectural work in their countries and abroad. While women architects have had a significant impact on the world in which they lived, architectural historiography has largely ignored their efforts. This exhibition is part of a recent larger international initiative to revise contemporary architectural history to more fairly reflect the contributions of women."

The exhibition begins with German pioneering women who began to study architecture around 1900 and then tried to establish themselves in this profession. It concludes with building in the post-reunification period, in Berlin as well as in the new Federal States, that is, the former East Germany.

The Cypriot contribution to Frau Architekt presents the portraits of six Greek Cypriots and five Turkish Cypriots through their individual and collaborative works, which range from designed and realised projects, to academia, activism, social engagement, entrepreneurship, sustainability, urbanism and preservation. The exhibition serves as a great opportunity to present for the first time the portrait Maro Efthymiades-Adjini (1937-1997), the first known Cypriot female architect.

The exhibition includes the following women architects: Emilie Winkelmann, Marie Frommer, Margarete SchÈ­tte-Lihotzky, Lotte Stam-Beese, Lucy Hillebrand, Wera Meyer-Waldeck, Merete Mattern, Iris Dullin-Grund, Verena Dietrich, Ingeborg Kuhler, Gesine Weinmiller, Almut GrÈ­ntuch-Ernst, Maro Efthymiades-Adjini, ýlkay Feridun, Athina Papadopoulou, Margarita Danou, Sevina Floridou, MÈ­nevver ÈûzgÈ­r Èûzersay, Esra Can, Meltem Nalbantoý-lu, Christiana Ioannou, Simzer Kay and Veronika Antoniou.

Frau Architekt

Exhibition examines the history of the presence of women in the profession of architecture in Germany and Cyprus over the last 100 years. December 7-February 5. Goethe-institut Cyprus, Nicosia. Opening night: 7pm. Wednesday-Friday: 2pm-7pm. Saturday: 10am-2pm. Tel: 22-674606.
182
Contract notice: framework contract for external auditing of eu projects (eu financial aid and eu service contracts) for the financial years 2022-2025 of the Goethe-institute e.V.

The aim of the tender is to conclude a framework agreement on the external auditing of eu projects (eu financial aid and eu service contracts) as well as the review of the use of funds from the Goethe-instituts financial aid to third parties from eur 100,000 for the financial years 2022 - 2025 a description of the required performance can be found in appendix a "performance description"the contractor is responsible for providing the following work packages: 1. expenditure verification of eu projects implemented in the Goethe-institut (eu financial aid and eu service contracts); carried out by the foreign institutes and the eu service business of the Goethe-institut in the period 2022 - 2025.2. examination of the use of funds from the Goethe-instituts financial aid to third parties from eur 100,000. examination of documents proving the financial suitability of a third party in the event that financial assistance of more than eur 60,000 is granted to a third party.

Major organization : Goethe-institut E.V. - ZENTRALE

Address : Oskar-von-Miller-Ring 18

Country :Germany

Email : cornelia.hoertner@goethe.de

Url : www.goethe.de

Tender notice number : 613946-2021.
183
 March Dance, a Chennai-based contemporary dance festival jointly organised and presented by Goethe-institut / Max Mueller Bhavan and Basement 21, has announced an open call for choreographers and artists collaborating with diverse dance forms, for 2022.The festival is looking to support artists who are working on new dance projects, involved in an ongoing artwork that would end in a dance project, or have been feeling creatively restricted during the lockdown.March Dance is extending support towards the completion of two such works and will host the premiers in Chennai during the March Dance 2022 festival. 
184
Contract notice: framework contract: learning support in the online language course "deutsch online individual" at the Goethe-institut

The subject of the advertisement is the learning support in the online language course "german online individual" of the Goethe-institut. the order is divided into a total of 5 lots. completion deadlines ".Online teacher to accompany a participant in the online language course "german online individual" learning guidance and support from the online teacher are generally in german: courses at levels a1, a2, b1, b2 and c1online teacher to accompany a participant in the online language course "german online individual" learning support by the online teacher is generally in german, if necessary she provides support in english: courses at levels a1, a2 and b1

Major organization : Goethe-institut E.V. - ZENTRALE

Address : oskar-von-miller-ring 18

Country :Germany

Email : gabriela.kurz@goethe.de

Tender notice number : 585195-2021

Notice type : Tender Notice

Open date : 2021-12-13.
185
The second edition of the Gulf German Film Festival will be held in Bahrain from December 6-8, in co-operation with the Goethe-institut Gulf Region.

"A riveting programme of recent German cinema and international co-productions, ranging from art house films to box-office hits.

The star-studded event invites an audience of all stripes," the German Embassy and the Goethe-institut Gulf Region said.

Three films, Gundermann, When Hitler Stole Pink Rabbit, and Too Far Away, will be screened at Cineco Juffair - Oasis Mall in Manama.

All movies will start at 7pm and entrance is free. However, the green shield will be required.

Ambassador Kai Boeckmann praised the steady progress of relations between Bahrain and Germany in culture, politics, business and other fields.

He was speaking as German group Arcis Saxophone Quartet enthralled the audience at the Cultural Hall with an outstanding performance of their "Colors of the Saxophone" concert.

The Munich Quartet comprised Claus Hierluksch, soprano saxophone; Ricarda Fuss, alto saxophone; Edoardo Zotti, tenor saxophone; and Jure Knez, baritone saxophone.
186
The second edition of the Gulf German Film Festival will be held in Bahrain on December 6-8 in cooperation with the Goethe-institut Gulf Region.

"A riveting program of recent German cinema and international co-productions, ranging from art house films to box-office hits. The star-studded event invites an audience of all stripes," the German embassy and the Goethe-institut Gulf Region said.

Three films, Gundermann, When Hitler Stole Pink Rabbit, and Too Far Away, will be screened at Cineco Juffair - Oasis Mall in Manama.

All movies will start at 7 pm and entrance is free; however, and under the strict precautionary health measures followed in Bahrain, the green shield will be required.

Ambassador Kai Boeckmann on Thursday hailed the steady deepening of relations between Bahrain and Germany in culture, politics, business and other fields.

He was speaking as German group Arcis Saxophone Quartet enthralled the audience at the Cultural Hall with an outstanding performance of their "Colors of the Saxophone" concert.

The Munich Quartet, Claus Hierluksch, soprano saxophone; Ricarda Fuss, alto saxophone; Edoardo Zotti, tenor saxophone; and Jure Knez, baritone saxophone, had a charismatic and authentic stage presence that captivated the audience and set them aflame with their enthusiasm and passion in the rare form of chamber music.
187
While lockdown restrictions have been eased and public life is back to near normal, in a move to ensure the safety of people, the Tamil Nadu government has recently initiated the process of making vaccination mandatory for people visiting public places. We talk to the public, those from malls and other public places, and a few event organisers.Vaccination status check at malls The last few days, many mall visitors were caught unawares when they were stopped and asked to show their vaccination status before they were allowed to step inside the malls in the city. Shwetha Hari, a youngster from Velachery, says she often visits a mall nearby, but was surprised when she visited the place a day ago as she was asked to show her vaccination certificate. "Even before you enter the premises of the mall, there are people checking vaccination certificates. I didn't know about that. I had to login to CoWIN site to show my certificate," informs Shwetha and adds, "Then, at the mall entrance, where they check the bags, they asked me to scan one QR code, and took down my name and other details. Probably they wanted to verify the vaccination status from their side."Spokesperson from a mall in Anna Nagar, says, "We have received all the guidelines set by the state and central governments. In accordance with the latest government guidelines, details of all visitors and shoppers to the mall are being collected in order to comply with government guidelines and maintain robust records." Do mall visitors have to be fully vaccinated for entry? "We are following all the protocols listed by the government. Each individual needs to show his/her vaccination certificate either on phone or a hard copy of the same to enter the premises of our shopping centre.We fully comply with the government guidelines and implemented the vaccination mandate from November 20." Will this impact the footfall at malls? Spokesperson from this mall in Anna Nagar, shares, "We've seen a surge in footfall and business, following both lockdowns. This is due to the confidence our patrons have in our stringent processes of following Covid safety guidelines. We do not expect these new guidelines to have any impact on the footfall. Instead, the additional assurance of safety will only lead to an increase in shoppers into the mall." J Ramesh, a Chennaiite, says while it may not be a big deal for tech-savvy people to immediately download and show their vaccination certificate, many, especially elderly, will find it hard. He says, "Thankfully, I went with my family and my son immediately downloaded and showed the certificate. But I saw a few people having difficulty in doing so. Now, like masks, we've to carry the vaccination certificate also, every time we step out. Tough times!" Vaccination must to attend events?Satish, an event organiser from Chennai says there isn't much clarity regarding this when it comes to events. "We haven't received any circular yet on this. But as an event organiser, I have been sending invites with a footnote that says, 'Invitees who are vaccinated are encouraged to attend the event'. So, some people voluntarily message me and tell me that they are not able to attend as they are not yet fully vaccinated. That way we can ensure that most of the guests are vaccinated." AS Ramakrishnan of a concert hall in the city says, "As we send out the invite itself, we mention that 'You are welcome to attend the concert live, provided you have taken both doses of vaccination'. But generally, since we've concerts throughout the year, we've mostly rasikas who are frequent visitors, who are vaccinated. If someone new drops in, we ask them if they're vaccinated." At Goethe-institut... Dr Katharina G÷rgen, director, Goethe-institut / Max Mueller Bhavan Chennai, informs, "People can spend time in the library only after fixing a prior appointment. Anyone can schedule a visit. However, if not a library member, visitors will need to share a copy of their current proof of residence prior to their visit. Socially distant seating is offered and all visitors are expected to wear masks at all times, and follow COVID-19 protocols. To visit the library, they must be either vaccinated (both shots) or recovered (less than six months ago) or tested (a negative RT-PCR test, not older than 72 hours). They can schedule their visit by filling in the form. The links to the form are available on our website's library page as well as our social media pages. Meanwhile, for members, the library also offers 'Mail and Collect' and 'Mail and Return' services, which allows them to borrow or return without visiting the library. The vaccination certificate is shared with us via mail earlier and is recommended to be kept handy during the visit."
188

A different film festival will be witnessed this coming week. It is a festival of films about science that will be screened for free at this year's National Science and Technology Week (NSTW) from November 22 to 28.

The Department of Science and Technology-Science Education Institute, together with the Goethe-institut Philippines, will be presenting the 12th annual Science Film Festival.

Since 2005, the Science Film Festival has been celebrating science communication in Southeast Asia that is now the largest event of its kind in the world.

This year's festivities include 35 science edutainment films. It will include topics ranging from cloud computing and biology to climatology and epidemiology, tied together by the theme, 'Better Health Through Better Understanding.'

The festival looks back on the challenges and milestones the world has faced in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, that aimas to empower the viewers to take better care of themselves and the environment.

'Health and mental well-being are vital in the aftermath of the pandemic, with many Filipino youths concerned about their and their family's wellbeing,' said DOST-SEI Director Josette T. Biyo.

'We hope to reach out to them and empower them through this Festival, even while fulfilling our mandate to deliver quality STEM education to the people,' she added.

The Science Film Festival also offers supplemental hands-on activities, including experiments, projects and learning games to supplement the films, making for an enjoyable and multidisciplinal learning experience.

All 35 science edutainment films will be available for free online until December 3.

With his year's theme, 'Agham at Teknolohiya: Tugon sa Hamon ng Panahon,'' the DOST pivoted amid the Covid-19 pandemic and found more ways than one to deliver its services to promote science, technology, and innovation.

True to its mandate, the DOST continues to serve by bringing science, technology, and innovation to our doorsteps with the virtual staging of the 2021 NSTW.

For more details about the Science Film Festival and the available films, please visit goethe.de/ScienceFilmFestPh. SandT Media Services.
189
framework contract: learning support in the online language course "deutsch online individual" at the Goethe-institut

The subject of the advertisement is the learning support in the online language course "german online individual" of the Goethe-institut. the order is divided into a total of 5 lots. completion deadlines ".Online teacher to accompany a participant in the online language course "german online individual" learning guidance and support from the online teacher are generally in german: courses at levels a1, a2, b1, b2 and c1online teacher to accompany a participant in the online language course "german online individual" learning support by the online teacher is generally in german, if necessary she provides support in english: courses at levels a1, a2 and b1

Major organization : Goethe-institut E.V. - ZENTRALE

Address : oskar-von-miller-ring 18

Country :Germany

Email : gabriela.kurz@goethe.de

Tender notice number : 585195-2021

Notice type : Tender Notice

Open date : 2021-12-13.
190
Contract notice: creation and operation of an overall system for applicant management including onboarding for use in the Goethe-instituts personnel work

Development of an overall system for applicant management including onboarding - hereinafter referred to as recon - for use in personnel work. the subject of the tender results from the draft of the service description (annex t 10) and the draft of the evb-it system contract (annex t11).Development of an overall system for applicant management including onboarding - hereinafter referred to as recon - for use in personnel work. the structure of the overall system includes the provision of standard software, its implementation including customizing and, if necessary, individual programming of the application, the provision of the overall system and the subsequent operation of the entire system as well as the system service after acceptance. after acceptance, the contract serves as a framework agreement that entitles the client to commission additional subsystems for the client in germany and, if necessary, abroad.

Major organization : Goethe-institut E.V. - ZENTRALE

Address : Oskar-von-Miller-Ring 18

Country :Germany

Email : kornelia.russo@goethe.de

Url : www.goethe.de

Tender notice number : 587368-2021

Notice type : Tender Notice

Open date : 2022-01-17.
191
Consul General of the Federal Republic of Germany in Karachi Holger Ziegeler on Tuesday said that since the poet-philosopher Dr. Mohammad Allama Iqbal plated a role of bridge for the cultural connection between Germany and Pakistan, our predecessors chose his birthday to sign the cultural agreement between the two countries on November 9, 1961.

'This leads us to commemorate today on Iqbal Day 60 years of cultural cooperation in addition to this year's celebration 70 years of diplomatic relations,' he added.

While addressing to a press conference at Karachi Press Club, the Consul General r, Director of the Goethe-institut Pakistan Ms Simone Lenz and Chair of the Karachi University's Urdu department Prof. Dr. Tanzeemul Firdous said that Allama Iqbal's work promoted the philosophy of self-hood and dealt with the intellectual and cultural reconstruction of the Islamic world, was credited to had given the vision for the creation of Pakistan, whereas Mohammad Ali Jinnah was considered to be the person, who cast this vision into political shape.

They said that the poet-philosopher received his Ph.D. degree from the Ludwig-Maximillians-Universitat Munchen Germany in 1908 and that was the greatest historical cultural link existing between Germany and Pakistan.

They said that thousands of students every year from Pakistan followed the footsteps of their national philosopher to pursue their higher studies in Germany.

They further said that Dr. Allama Iqbal found notable intellectual connections with Kant, Hegel, Goethe and Nietzsche, among others and quoted these German scholars in his prose and poetry many times.

'Dr. Iqbal paid tribute to Germany in these words: The nature has deputed a special duty to every nation. And according to the nature, the ordering and the arrangement of human knowledge is the duty of German nation.'

They said that in order to value the pact and cherish the diamond jubilee, the Goethe-institut Pakistan had produced a facsimile (a true copy) of Allama Mohammad Iqbal's doctoral thesis submitted to the Ludwig-Maximillians-Universitat Munchen.

Later, they also cut a cake to mark the birthday of poet-philosopher Dr. Mohammad Allama Iqbal.
192
Consul General of the Federal Republic of Germany in Karachi Holger Ziegeler on Tuesday said that since the poet-philosopher Dr Mohammad Allama Iqbal played a role of bridge for the cultural connection between Germany and Pakistan, our predecessors chose his birthday to sign the cultural agreement between the two countries on November 9, 1961.

'This leads us to commemorate today on Iqbal Day 60 years of cultural cooperation in addition to this year's celebration 70 years of diplomatic relations,' he added. While addressing to a press conference at Karachi Press Club, the Consul General, Director of the Goethe-institut Pakistan Ms Simone Lenz and Chair of the Karachi University's Urdu department Prof Dr Tanzeemul Firdous said that Allama Iqbal's work promoted the philosophy of self-hood and dealt with the intellectual and cultural reconstruction of the Islamic world, was credited to had given the vision for the creation of Pakistan, whereas Mohammad Ali Jinnah was considered to be the person, who cast this vision into political shape.

They said that the poet-philosopher received his Ph.D degree from the Ludwig-Maximillians-Universitat Munchen Germany in 1908 and that was the greatest historical cultural link existing between Germany and Pakistan. They said that thousands of students every year from Pakistan followed the footsteps of their national philosopher to pursue their higher studies in Germany.

They further said that Dr Allama Iqbal found notable intellectual connections with Kant, Hegel, Goethe and Nietzsche, among others and quoted these German scholars in his prose and poetry many times. 'Dr Iqbal paid tribute to Germany in these words: The nature has deputed a special duty to every nation. And according to the nature, the ordering and the arrangement of human knowledge is the duty of German nation.' They said that in order to value the pact and cherish the diamond jubilee, the Goethe-institut Pakistan had produced a facsimile (a true copy) of Allama Mohammad Iqbal's doctoral thesis submitted to the Ludwig Maximillians-Universitat Munchen.

Later, they also cut a cake to mark the birthday of poet-philosopher Dr Mohammad Allama Iqbal.

Meanwhile, Vice Chancellor University of Karachi Professor Dr Khalid Mahmood Iraqi said Pakistani nation need to learn from the thoughts, teaching, and philosophy of Dr Muhammad Allama Iqbal as his divine poetry carried great messages of hope, optimism, freedom, patriotism, ego and self reliance.

We all praise Allama Iqbal for his vision and devotion and acknowledge that he was the great leader who gives the concept of a separate homeland for Muslims of the subcontinents. But, unfortunately, we did not follow what he teaches us and what he wants us to do for the betterment of our motherland.

These views were expressed by VC KU on Tuesday. He was addressing the audience during an Iqbal Day celebration held at the Karachi University Business School Auditorium.

The ceremony was attended by Sector Commander Sindh Rangers Brigadier Muhammad Shabir Khan, Wing Commander Col. Musoor Abbas, Major Imran, KU Student Advisor Dr Syed Asim Ali, Professor Dr Uzma Farman, Dr Danish Pirzada, chairs of various departments, teachers, and a large number of students.

This is a reality that the west has learned a lot from Dr Muhammad Iqbal, they learn how to survive in difficult situations and how to struggle when there is little hope and things are not in their favor. However, we failed to implement his teaching and thoughts in our society in letter and spirit, he told.

The KU VC Professor Dr Khalid Iraqi informed the audience that a lot of work has been done regarding Iqbal's literary and philosophical work in Germany while in Pakistan we have not done such a world.

Another speaker, Professor Dr Uzma Farman said that Allama Iqbal has declared the youth as the catalyst for change in society, life, and thought. Iqbal is such a big and widespread name that it is not possible to wrap it up and cover his personality and work in a single day.

'Before the independence, the people of the subcontinent had almost give-up the hopes that British rulers will leave their land, and at that time very few people like Iqbal tried to awaken the sleeping nation through his thoughts and also showed them the way to the destination.'

On this occasion, the Karachi University Music Society released a special song 'Talash' based on Allama Iqbal work to celebrate Iqbal Day. It was the fifth nation song being released by the team of KUMS during the last three years.

Furthermore, the Karachi University Theatre and Drama Society stage a drama 'Nahi hai Iqbal Na Ummed' whereas a marathon race 'Shaheen never gets tired' was organized by the Karachi University Sports Society and the members of the Inclusive Society of the University of Karachi presented national anthem by using sign language. The performances were appreciated by the guest and audience and merit certificates were also distributed among the students who participated in various activities.
193
10th November 2021 (Tap News Agency) The Tfanen-Tunisie Creative programme was the focus of a meeting held Tuesday, November 9, at the headquarters of the Ministry of Cultural Affairs in Tunis.

The programme, which aims to support the cultural sector, is funded by the European Union under the support programme for the cultural sector in Tunisia (PACT) of the Ministry of Cultural Affairs.

This collaborative programme of the European Union National Institutes for Culture (EUNIC) is implemented by the British Council.

A total budget of pound 9.7 million has been earmarked for the implementation of this bilateral programme, from 2016 to 2021 and for all programme activities.

The main activities and achievements since the launch of the programme in 2016 were presented at this meeting chaired by Minister of Cultural Affairs Hayet Ketat Guermazi.

Tfanen-Tunisie Creative was represented by Director of the British Council Tunisia and First Project Manager Robert Ness and Director of the Goethe-institut Tunis and President of EUNIC Andrea Jacob.

On the Tunisian side, the meeting was attended by Chief of Staff of the Minister of Cultural Affairs Youssef Ben Brahim, Director General of the Opera Theatre Soufiane Feki and Head of the Studies, Planning and Programming Office Radhia Amri.

The Minister pointed to the role of Tfanen in encouraging creativity and innovation among young people in all cultural sectors.

Hayet Ketat Guermazi also spoke of Tfanen's role in building the capacity of cultural institutions to develop their project management mechanisms and expand their contribution to sustainable development.

The representatives of Tfanen-Tunisie Creative gave an overview of the main indicators of the programme, its action plan for the coming period through a communication strategy that promotes cultural projects both nationally and internationally.

Tafanen pays particular attention to projects with added value in the field of decentralisation, and benefiting youth and women.

This programme targets all sectors of culture, including Dramatic Arts, Books and Publishing, Plastic Arts, Performing Arts, Dance, Theatre, Music, Tangible and Intangible Heritage, New Forms of Artistic Expression (notably linked to the development of digital media), Cinema and Audiovisual and Cultural Tourism.
194
An upcoming film screening at Goethe-institut Cyprus focuses on a time when the art world made a sensational discovery, just 100 years too late. In 1906, Hilma af Klint paints her first abstract picture, long before Kandinsky, Mondrian or Malewitsch. In total, she creates over 1,500 abstract paintings, which remain hidden from posterity for decades. This real-life Swedish artist's paintings were considered among the first abstract works known in Western art history. Yet how could it be that a woman founded abstract painting at the beginning of the 20th century and no one took any notice?

The film Beyond the Visible directed by Halina Dyrschka, to be screened on November 11, asks exactly that. The cinematic approach to a pioneer whose sensual work fascinates, not only artistically, shows a lifelong search for meaning that seeks to grasp life beyond the visible.

Hilma af Klint's extraordinary world of thought ranges from biology and astronomy to theosophy and the theory of relativity, spanning a fascinating cosmos of unique images and notes. Today, the artist inspires millions with her unrestrained thinking, which culminates in an overwhelming oeuvre and turns the historiography of art on its head.

Beyond the Visible

Film screening on the artist Hilma af Klint whose paintings considered among the first abstract works known in Western art history. November 11. Goethe-institut Cyprus, Nicosia. 7pm. Free.
195
The National Theatre of Namibia (NTN) in collaboration with the Goethe-institut Namibia, announced the launch of the Otjomuise Live Arts Festival (OLAF) on Monday.

OLAF is an annual live arts festival that aims to bridge everyday life and the arts in Windhoek by providing opportunities for live artistic forms to be showcased within the city's public spaces.

The festival, which takes place from 06 to 13 November at the UN Plaza Park in Katutura's Soweto residential area, is also being supported by the European Union Delegation to Namibia, Equipped Dance Academy, College of the Arts, Eldorado Secondary School, and Tobias Hainyeko Primary School.

Other partners are the Windhoek City Council and Namibian Broadcasting Corporation.

OLAF will take place under the theme 'Bringing life and arts to the city'.

In a media statement, NTN Public Relations Officer Desiree Mentor said OLAF is largely brought about by the inaccessibility of the majority of Windhoek's inhabitants to various artistic expressions; often limited to indoor, and at times, inaccessible areas of the city.

'As a result, OLAF provides opportunities for immersive, experimental, and refreshing artistic forms to be showcased or installed in public places where life and the arts can collide. This is to reflect not only the city's environmental character, but also its rich heritage and artistic expressions, which must have an impact on its inhabitants,' she stated.

She said the week-long programme includes free small-scale happenings, installations, performances, and public engagements all over the city. Leisure and scenery are among the topics covered, as is access to collective pleasure, identity and collective-public memory, and navigations of everyday socioeconomic issues.

'The festival aims to contribute to a city that enables dynamic and accessible live artistic forms for cohesion, collective reflections, and enlightenment. The name Otjomuise stems from the Otjiherero name for the city, which means 'place of steam',' Mentor said.
196
The Goethe-institut is hosting the latest edition of the Science Film Festival, a celebration of science communication in Southeast Asia, South Asia, Africa, the Middle East and Latin America.In cooperation with local partners, it promotes science literacy and facilitates awareness of contemporary scientific, technological and environmental issues through international films with accompanying educational activities.The Rotary Club of Madras East, Ramakrishna Mission, PASCH - Schools: Partners for the Future, Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan and Environmentalist Foundation of India are the partners collaborating with Goethe-institut.The festival presents 122 films from 22 countries as the international official selection in 2021 under the theme, 'Better health through better understanding'. This year, the festival takes place internationally from October 1 to December 20 and invites viewers to enjoy some of the best work in international science communication.
197
online training platform for employees on the following topics: information security / data protection / compliance / safety / security

The Goethe-institut e.V. plans to provide modular, interactive online training courses on the following topics: information security / data protection / compliance / safety / security / for self-study for all employees around the world on an online training platform. a detailed description of the required performance can be found in annex a "description of services" can be founda modular, interactive online training platform for information security / data protection / compliance for self-study for all employees of the client, which is made available to the client as a saas solution worldwide.

Major organization : Goethe-institut E.V. - ZENTRALE

Address : Oskar-von-Miller-Ring 18

Country :Germany

Email : Elia.Fernandez.Torres@goethe.de

Url : www.goethe.de

Tender notice number : 553429-2021

Notice type : Tender Notice

Open date : 2021-11-24.
198
 external information security service provider for the worldwide Goethe-institut

The subject of the tender is the conclusion of a framework contract with a competent and efficient partner company for all areas of information security. the essential required service content includes strategy, organization, general it security consulting, creation of security concepts, risk analyzes, support security incident management, contract reviews, technical support and implementation for program management and it security operations, it security assessments, a detailed description of the service can be found in annex t12 service description-info-security service.Conclusion of a framework contract with a competent and efficient partner company for all areas of information security. in general, the following areas are to be covered by the contractor: 1. general security consulting, external information security officer of the Goethe-institut2. information security assessments / re-assessments 3. creation of security concepts, risk analyzes, ad-hoc technical clarifications4. support security incident management5. technical exams6. project support / project consulting7. contract reviews and advice8. it security training, awareness, newsletters9. support it security operations

Major organization : Goethe-institut E.V. - ZENTRALE.
199
The Power of Images is the launch event of DialogRaum Goethe, which will take place regularly at the event hall of the Goethe-institut Cyprus in the buffer zone. In an upcoming event on Tuesday scholars Evripides Zantides and Klaus Sachs-Hombach will discuss with the audience the power of images in media in a panel discussion moderated by theatre professional Diomedes Koufteros.

DialogRaum Goethe invites Cypriot and German experts from academia, culture and media to speak on current topics and encourages the audience to participate in discussions and ask questions. Focusing on the power and independent existence of images in media for the first DialogRaum event was an idea that arose from the theatre performance Picture Perfect by the SRSLY_yours Ensemble. This performance, which is supported by the Goethe-institut, premiered at Rialto Theatre in Limassol in March and will be shown in Nicosia at ARTos House and again at Rialto Theatre in Limassol in early November. Its director Achim Wieland and members of the SRSLY_yours ensemble will take part in the discussion at DialogRaum Goethe.

Talking about the event's theme, the organisers said: "Since Plato, the status of pictorial representations has been controversial. On the one hand, pictures were considered inferior to words when it came to expressing abstract thoughts. On the other, an almost magical aura has been attributed to them. This ambivalent attitude has prevailed to the present day, with all kinds of newly invented pictorial media such as photography or virtual reality evoking reactions that range from greatest enthusiasm to utmost scepticism."

Alongside this background, Tuesday's talk, which is free to attend and in English, attempts to clarify the specific properties of visual communication with images playing a pivotal role in the rhetoric of communication. While the lecture introduces relevant theoretical frameworks, it aims to analyse and discuss images through specific examples and analytical tools.

The Power of Images

Talk with scholars Evripides Zantides and Klaus Sachs-Hombach, moderated by Diomedes Koufteros. October 26. Goethe-institut Cyprus, Nicosia. 7pm. In English. Free. 
200
Celebrating German language and culture, five weeks of back-to-back events are coming up! The Embassies of Austria, Germany, Switzerland and the Goethe-institut Cyprus are organising the 5th edition of the Weeks of the German Language that will take place on the whole island from October 25 until the end of November. An array of activities, including films, music, exhibitions, lectures and children's events have been planned -- all related to language and culture.

The Weeks of the German Language aim at promoting multilingualism in Cyprus and contribute to the cultural exchange between Cyprus, Austria, Germany and Switzerland. This year, 12 events are planned including a musical performance that draws from The Magic Flute by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart. The performance is titled Rejected Sounds of The Magic Flute presented by visual artist Evelyn Anastasiou and happens in collaboration with the Austrian Embassy. It will take place on October 30 at the Municipal University Library in Limassol.

Another highlight is an exhibition at the Centre of Visual Arts and Research (CVAR) that the German Embassy is organising which will host some of the rarest and earliest illustrations of Cyprus, as well as theatre workshops for children based on German fairy tales. Titled The GrÈ­nenberg Experience: a Medieval View of Cyprus, the exhibition will run from November 4 to 17.

The screening of the award-winning film Schwesterlein (My Little Sister) in Nicosia and Limassol is also not to be missed as is the exhibition Frau Architekt at the Goethe-institut that showcases the work of German and Cypriot women architects, what was widely considered a male-dominated profession. Recitals, animation film screenings, art lectures, Brothers Grimm fairy tales and plenty more events will celebrate all things German this autumn.

Weeks of the German Language

5 th edition of a series of events that celebrate multilingualism in Cyprus and the German language. October 25-November 29. 
201
The Goethe Pop Up Festival kicked off with a group show at Lamatia, Dhaka in September

The Goethe-institut Bangladesh is celebrating its 60 years in Dhaka with a unique project, highlighting cultural projects from across the country with the signature name Goethe Pop Up.

'The cultural relationship between Bangladesh and Germany has spanned across various subjects including art and education and included themes such as sustainability and technology. While the Goethe-institut has been located in Dhaka since 1961, linking up with art initiatives both in and beyond the capital is of utter importance for the Goethe-institut's network across South Asia.' states Dr Kirsten Hackenbroch, Director of the Goethe-institut Bangladesh. 'To celebrate our 60 years in Dhaka, we called for proposals for Goethe Pop Up ideas from curators, academics, and specialists from all across Bangladesh.'

Goethe Pop Up is conceived as a vessel for hybrid, ambitious projects that speak across and between frameworks, both conceptual, as well as physical. It develops new ideas that resonate with local audiences as well as the Goethe-institut's objectives to strengthen existing cultural relations and to foster new and meaningful ways of cross-national exchanges with the purpose of reflecting on and producing knowledge.

'From numerous high-quality concepts, reflecting the diversity of expressions and representing the variety of unique approaches, the Goethe-institut selected eight curatorial partnerships or artist collectives to integrate into an ecosystem of multiple Goethe Pop Ups across Bangladesh, celebrating our anniversary this late autumn.' shares Dr Hackenbroch who has a long history with Bangladesh. Before she joined the Goethe-institut Bangladesh as their Director in 2017, the trained urban planner has been travelling to Bangladesh regularly for her doctoral research on public spaces in Dhaka.

The projects, their curators, and locations are 'Native Roots' by Asifuzzaman Khan and Younguang Mro in Bandarban, 'Floating Dream comes Home.' by Ashfika in Chalan Beel, Singra, Natore, 'Book Bakery' by Shohrab Jahan in Chittagong, 'Bhati-scape' by Arfun Ahmed in the Bhati region and online, 'Once there were Rivers' by Mahenaz Chowdhury and Simone Simonato in Demra and Berlin, '5th Hill Film Festival' by Adit Dewan and the Jum Film Forum in Rangamati, '????? ??????? In the Terrains of Fear' by Ghartera in Dhaka, 'Sister Library' by Aqui Thami and HerStory Foundation in Dhaka and online, and 'Kahichal' by Ruxmini Reckvana Q Choudhury in Dinajpur,

The Goethe Pop Up Festival kicked off with a group show 'In the Terrains of Fear' at Lamatia, Dhaka in September. "The traditional gallery space often intimidates audiences with its rules that set who the viewer can be or can't be. But we believe that art should be interactive and that it is for everybody," says Kazi Tahsin Agaz Apurbo, one of the curators of Ghartera.

From October 24-29, 2021, the second Pop Up called KAHICHAL is inviting to Dinajpur. Various artists, who are either based, born, or raised in Dinajpur town and artists who discovered the town for the first time, have been collaboratively working together, looking at the architecture, townscape, and the people living at Bahadur Bazar and nearby areas to develop their ideas.

The concept is created by curator, art writer, and researcher Ruxmini Reckvana Q Choudjury, who founded the platform 'Singularity' to address social stigma and stereotypical behaviors through art. The local art organization in Dinajpur 'Gallery Sharang' is an implementation partner of Kahichal.

Kahichal derives from a Dinajpur dialect and can be interpreted as chaos, uproar, or ruction - but does not carry a negative notion. The people living in this town are Bengalis, Biharis, Marwaris, Paschimas, Polia, Santal, and Orao. 'There is a certain harmony that can be seen between them all,' elaborates Ruxmini Choudhury, who is a Dinajpur native. Kahichal will investigate the diversity of the town, focusing on the variety of languages, people, and their lifestyles.

From October 24-27, 2021, Kahichal is conducting engagement activities, such as ceramic, painting, printmaking workshops, performances, installations, photo and video documentation at exciting locations, including the METI School with Dipshikha in Rudrapur, Dinajpur Rajbari, Kantojew Temple, Nayabad Mosque, Dinajpur Natya Samity, and Gallery Sharang, Dinajpur.

The Kahichal Festival will take place on 29 October 2021, from 4-8pm at Shilpakala Academy Dinajpur.

'Kahichal will give the opportunity for the people of Dinajpur to look at their own culture through a different lens and for the people from other places to learn about the diversity of Dinajpur town,' says Ruxmini Choudhury.

Artistes are amongst others Md Rajiuddin Choudhury W, Anisul Haque Rony, Farah Sultana Shama, Fatema Islam Prima, Siddik Ibn Wahid, Emran Sohel, Farzana Ahmed Urmi, and Monon Muntaka.
202
 external information security service provider for the worldwide Goethe-institut

The subject of the tender is the conclusion of a framework contract with a competent and efficient partner company for all areas of information security. the essential required service content includes strategy, organization, general it security consulting, creation of security concepts, risk analyzes, support security incident management, contract reviews, technical support and implementation for program management and it security operations, it security assessments, a detailed description of the service can be found in annex t12 service description-info-security service.Conclusion of a framework contract with a competent and efficient partner company for all areas of information security. in general, the following areas are to be covered by the contractor: 1. general security consulting, external information security officer of the Goethe-institut2. information security assessments / re-assessments 3. creation of security concepts, risk analyzes, ad-hoc technical clarifications4. support security incident management5. technical exams6. project support / project consulting7. contract reviews and advice8. it security training, awareness, newsletters9. support it security operations

Major organization : Goethe-institut E.V. - ZENTRALE

Address : Oskar-von-Miller-Ring 18

Country :Germany

Email : elia.fernandez.torres@goethe.de

Url : www.goethe.de

Tender notice number : 533171-2021

Notice type : Tender Notice

Open date : 2021-11-17.
203
The European Union (EU) organised a four-day training workshop through the European Film Festival to help local screenwriters improve their writing material and production packages.

The training, which began on Monday and ended Thursday at the Franco Namibian Cultural Centre (FNCC) in the capital, was aimed at strengthening the capacity of upcoming and established filmmakers to further develop their skills, which will ultimately affect their production output.

In an interview with Nampa on Thursday, Gosia Lachut, Deputy Head of the EU Delegation to Namibia, said the training workshop is part of the European Film Festival which the EU is hosting in Namibia for the first time.

She added that the training was led by experts of the highest calibre, including Simona Nobile, who has worked in the industry for 16 years and is a member of the 100 Autori Association, which represents Italian directors and screenwriters.

Lachut also mentioned that producer and founder of Monday Films in Ghana, Ama Ampadu shared her filmography expertise, as well as being a member of the Hot Docs-Blue Ice Docs Fund 2021 Selection Committee, which helps Africans tell their stories through documentaries.

This year's EU Film Festival is themed 'Life is about laughter, sadness, joy, wonders and timeless stories', and is running for two months, every Wednesday from 06 October until 01 December 2021, at The Village.

The festival will screen award-winning European and Namibian films, with a total of six European and three Namibian films screening, covering a variety of genres and topics with a unique storytelling approach, Lachut said.

The training was made possible by the Goethe-institut Namibia, the embassies of Spain and Finland and Club Italiano Namibia, in collaboration with the Namibia Film Commission, the Filmmakers Association of Namibia and Ombetja Yehinga Organisation.
204
The Goethe-institut Jordan launched a training programme to support young and mid-career designers. In partnership with Twelve Degrees, a design studio, the Goeth-Institut's Product Design Fellowship aims to "support 15 young and mid-career designers in Jordan and to enhance their expertise" during a time in which "COVID-19 has put businesses and livelihoods of many designers in Jordan at risk," according a statement from the institute.

The training programme, which started on August 22, will run until November 13, 2021. According to the statement, the programme hopes to expand the designers' professional activities through resilience-building measures and "to raise their awareness on urgent topics of today's world, to become more sustainable and comprehensive in their approach to design.

"The fellowship "is designed to give the participants hands-on experience to improve their design skills" and "focuses on the intersections of economic, social and environmental sustainability".
205
Design, editing and distribution of a newspaper supplement - the Goethe-institut's cultural magazine

Major organization : Goethe-institut E. V.

Address : Postal Address: Oskar-Von-Miller-Ring 18

Town: Mnchen.
206
The event series Social Sculptures, organised by the Goethe-institut Cyprus within the framework of Beuys100 and curated by Marina Christodoulidou, unfolded with a workshop that led to an exhibition, which was inaugurated in September. The exhibition is now open until October 23 and a parallel programme includes guided tours, film screenings about Beuys, an online talk with art historian Rhea ThÈµnges-Stringaris, and a round-table discussion with the participating artists and collaborators during the finissage.

Action artist, activist, sculptor, draughtsman and professor at the DÈ­sseldorf Art Academy, Joseph Beuys would have turned 100 this year. His ideas, works and political commitment had a significant impact on the art landscape of the post-war period and the formation of contemporary and socially engaged art practices.

The exhibition Social Sculptures features the practices of eleven artists. Their artistic approaches employ different media, comprising of sound, sculpture, engraving, photography, installation and performance, some of which are participatory. Two exhibition tours, guided by Christodoulidou, will take place on October 6 and 20 at 6pm.

A highlight of the project Social Sculptures is a live talk between Christodoulidou and art historian Rhea ThÈµnges-Stringaris, which will take place online on Thursday. In the early 70s, ThÈµnges-Stringaris met Joseph Beuys at the documenta in Kassel. This encounter developed into a creatively intimate collaboration and friendship. In this conversation, she will reflect on Beuys' social sculpture term, discuss the impact of his work and philosophy and talk about her collaboration with the artist.

Also on in October are two film screenings on Tuesday 12 and Monday 18, both outdoors at Goethe-institut Cyprus. The exhibition will close with a round-table discussion with the participating artists and collaborators during the finissage, moderated by the curator, which will take place on October 22.

Social Sculptures

Exhibition and parallel events within the framework of Beuys100.
207
Germany is among the top-five key trading partners to the Kingdom

There are more than 800 German companies operating in Saudi Arabia

Updated 15 sec ago Dieter Lamlé October 03, 2021 00:55 Follow @arabnews

Amb. Dieter Lamlé

On Oct. 3 we commemorate the 31st German National Day. To Germans, this day commemorates the end of a more than four decades-long division. Today, we celebrate the peaceful reunification of our country in the middle of a united Europe.

If we think back to 30 years ago, nobody in Germany, Europe or the wider world was imagining or expecting the reunification of Germany. No one was prepared for such a dramatic event at the heart of Europe. And yet, on Nov. 9, 1989, the people of East Germany tore down the wall that had split Germany. Not a single shot was fired. The unbelievable happened. Peacefully!

The fall of the Berlin Wall, which had divided Germany and Europe for 40 years, was followed by the signing of the Two Plus Four Agreement in September 1990. This paved the way for the official reunification of the two German states on Oct. 3 that year. It was achieved by calls from the people for change on the one hand, and by diplomatic negotiations on the other. It was thanks to the trust and support of our neighbors and partners that Germany's path of fortune was possible.

This very emotional experience was one of the reasons I became a diplomat -- and a very optimistic person, no matter how steep the challenges are. For me the most important lesson from Germany's reunification is this: Never stop believing in the impossible. In today's times of global political, economic and personal hardships, an optimistic outlook is more important than ever.

The song "Wind of Change" by German rock band Scorpions stands for a strong and powerful feeling of unity, and created the spirit in Germany for a peaceful transition. This was not always easy. The process of ensuring political, social and economic reunification, and reuniting two parts of a long-divided people, entailed challenges that persist to this day.

Today we know this: Times of change can be positive opportunities. That is why I am particularly happy to become the new German ambassador to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia in times of economic and social change. Germany will be a reliable partner on this path of transformation.

The relations between Saudi Arabia and Germany are built on a very solid foundation. We have almost 100 years of experience in our bilateral relations. As member states of the G20, we work closely in several fields, including economics and politics. We share common political interests, such as peace, stability and prosperity, and the fight against terrorism.

Saudi Arabia dealt with the COVID-19 pandemic in an exemplary way. I look forward to taking our bilateral relationship to a higher level now that vaccinations will allow for more face-to-face interactions.

A very important pillar of our cooperation is German-Saudi economic relations. There are more than 800 German companies operating in the Kingdom and supporting the diversification of the Saudi economy, in particular in the implementation of the Saudi Vision 2030 goals. Germany is among the top-five key trading partners to the Kingdom.

GESALO, the German-Saudi Liaison Office for Economic Affairs in the Kingdom, is a key partner of the German Embassy. It accelerates economic cooperation by supporting German companies wishing to enter the Saudi market and helping them to find business opportunities.

To us Germans, the people of Saudi Arabia are not only very good business partners, they are also good friends.

Ambassador Dieter Lamlé

A milestone of our close cooperation was the signing in March this year of a memorandum of understanding for cooperation in the field of green hydrogen. Global warming is one of the greatest long-term perils humankind is facing, and our two nations are working closely together to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and contribute to the diversification of Saudi Arabia's industry.

To us Germans, the people of Saudi Arabia are not only very good business partners, they are also good friends. For this reason, another main pillar of our cooperation is cultural relations. I welcome the fact that culture is at the very heart of the Kingdom's Vision 2030 plans.

Although cultural exchange has been particularly challenging during the pandemic, the sheer number and diversity of projects being jointly undertaken at the moment is testimony to our long and lasting friendship. Saudi artists are participating in German art residency programs and exhibit their work in German galleries. German artists will be part of the Tuwaiq International Sculpture Symposium, the Biennale and the upcoming MDL Beast musical festival.

We are also happy to support young emerging Saudi painters in their efforts to turn their talents into a profession by promoting them on our social media. And we are planning more events to come: concerts with German and Saudi artists, cooperation with German museums, and the activities of the German Archaeological Institute in Saudi Arabia.

In the field of education, a shining example of German-Saudi cooperation can be found in the specialist medical training of Saudi doctors at the prestigious Charite hospital in Berlin. The program entered its seventh year in September 2021. Meanwhile the Goethe-institut has a record number of students studying the German language, and is just starting its cultural program.

And as ambassador of the home country of renowned soccer clubs such as FC Bayern Munich and Borussia Dortmund, I am particularly proud that Monika Staab from Germany is the first coach of the female Saudi National soccer team.
208Ahed Taha

Oct. 3AMMAN The European Union in Jordan and the European Union National Institutes for Culture (EUNIC) on Saturday celebrated the European Day of Languages at the Boulevard in Abdali.

The event, held between 12 noon until 8 pm, witnessed the participation of embassies and cultural centres, including many sections and activities.

The event seeks to introduce people to EU's various cultures and languages through many sections that the visitors can see in their tour.

Upon arrival to the event's location, once can see different sections including welcome room, languages room, art room, VR section, theatre, dancing and music room, with a schedule that states the timing and location of every embassy-related event.

"I really enjoy attending cultural events, especially those concerning different languages and environments," Asma Yousef, a Jordanian citizen, told The Jordan Times on Saturday.

She also commended the level of organisation the event enjoys, especially COVID santisation stations at the entrance of every room and the various activities that are being held.

In the languages room, the organisers had put a board, aimed at language exchange, where each individual can fill a card in which they choose which language they want to learn or teach, a step towards cultural and language exchange.

A set of free-of-charge languages classes were also given at the languages room.

Once visitors reach the VR section, they can get a glimpse of various European cities.

"The goal of this section is to present visitors with great experience of seeing EU cities as if they were actually there. They can pick the city in which they wish to walk in their streets and they also have a controller of which they can gear the screen to have full experience," said Mohammed Al Kattan, a VR volunteer.

The event also featured different cultural dance shows, animated movies, and languages classes.

EUNIC members in Jordan are: The British Council, The Institut Francais, The Goethe-institut, Societa Dante Alighieri and the embassies of Austria, Belgium, the Czech Republic, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Poland, Romania, Spain and Sweden, according to EUNIC.

European Day of Languages is a day that is celebrated at the initiative of the Council of Europe, Strasbourg, every year since 2001 and on, or around September 26 to encourage learning across the world and to raise awareness about the importance of lifelong language learning as a means of increasing intercultural understanding, according to EUNIC.
209
No stranger to the local music scene, Cassidy Karon is a multitalented musician, fashion designer, songwriter and producer.

He is a seven-time Namibian Annual Music Awards (NAMAs) winner as a member of hip-hop duo, Paradox; has appeared on international television channels such as CNN; and was nominated for 2020 Namas Best Hip Hop, Best Kwaito, Best Newcomer and Male Artist of the Year.

"I'm an electronic musician. Experimentation is pivotal to my identity," said Cassidy, who considers himself as a student of life.

He launched his new album 'Katutura's favourite son' earlier this week and the audience can experience his latest tracks for the very first time on stage tonight at the Night Under the Stars (NUTS) concert at the Goethe-institut Namibia.

Inspired by what he learns from experiences, Cassidy writes about everyday life in Katutura from the perspective of appreciation.

"I try to celebrate who we are and what we're capable of as a community and act as a voice and reference for children who want to take an alternative approach to life. I celebrate being black and from Katutura."

Cassidy grounds himself within the aspiration to become a catalyst for change in his community.

"I spread a homegrown narrative of hope and overcoming difficulties we face in our communities. I have experienced the Namibian struggle, as well as Namibian victory at the highest level."

Cassidy is of the opinion that players in the local music scene are afraid to push themselves creatively and thus are too concerned about trends instead of developing creatively.

Tonight's concert begins at 19h00. Entrance is N$20 and seats are limited due to social distancing regulations.
210
At the crack of dawn on Mahalaya every year, Bengalis residing all across the globe welcome the auspicious Debipaksha by tuning into their radio sets. Listening to Birendra Krishna Bhadra's Chandipath in his rich baritone - in the iconic All India Radio programme Mahisasuramardini - is an annual ritual. Given the global appeal of the occasion that is followed by Durga Puja festivities, Kolkata's diplomats and expatriate community have decided to give an international twist to the audio montage in collaboration with musician duo Sourendro Mullick and Soumyojit Das, who will help them present parts of the Mahalaya programme in their respective native languages.On Thursday, newly appointed American Consul General Melinda Pavek, Italian Consul General Gianluca Rubagotti and Goethe-institut/Max Mueller Bhavan director Astrid Wege came together at the Sovabazar Rajbari to shoot for a video that will feature a collage of their performances along with an original agomoni gaan by the duo. A Kolkata-based teacher of Russian origin, Anna Saha, read out the Russian portion of the script.Melinda, who is looking forward to her first Puja in Kolkata, told us, "Festivals can be a great way to introduce and welcome people to one's culture. It's been just a few weeks since I came here and I'm so excited about Puja. I find the idea of worshipping a feminine power really fascinating and the tales of Goddess Durga are truly intriguing."Sourendro and Soumyojit have observed that their young foreign students - from both Bengali and international communities - are keen to learn about the significance of Mahalaya. "Unlike us, they don't grow up with the same festive fervour surrounding Mahalaya and Mahisasuramardini. We always felt the need to reach out to this community - third-generation NRIs and non-Indian international audiences. And who can present it better than the diplomats and cultural officials?" said Soumyojit, adding, "I'm grateful to Partha Mukherjee, my professor from St Xavier's for translating the entire thing into English. Based on that, it was further translated into the officials' native languages."Another attraction of the video is the performance by Chhau artistes from Purulia who will be seen as Ma Durga, her children and Mahishasura. Sharing more details about the project, Sourendro said, "No Bengali can ever avoid the Puja excitement that begins right on Mahalaya, which is on October 6 this year. Even last year, the festive spirit was high despite the pandemic scare. This year is no exception. We will try to bring out that flavour in our video. You might see a Chhau artiste dressed as Saraswati going to work using public transport or you may see someone else preparing dhunuchi in a government office and its smell gradually spreading all over the place. These are just a few ways to show that with Puja almost here, we can't help feeling distracted," said Sourendro.The musician is very proud to have involved Chhau artistes and dhakis. "This pandemic has wreaked havoc on the livelihood of these artistes. Many of them have been forced to completely stop performing and switch to other occupations. If this goes on, our traditional art forms will become extinct. We, in our very limited capacity, are trying to employ some of these artistes so that they feel encouraged in this hour of crisis," Sourendro added.
211
Contract notice:Conception, creation, maintenance and further development of a digital German learning offer for the target group of German learners in schools

Major organization : Goethe-institut E.V. - ZENTRALE

Address : oskar-von-miller-ring 18

town: mnchen.
212
: Shamayita.Chakraborty

Astrid Wege came to Kolkata last December when the first wave of pandemic was in full swing. Soon after she joined office as the director of Goethe-institut / Max Mueller Bhavan Kolkata, the country experienced second wave. But now that Durga Puja is round the corner, Astrid has started making her plans with colleagues and friends. For an exclusive photoshoot, she chose to wear a magenta Baluchari sari. 'I chose this sari very carefully after researching its heritage. This is so beautiful. I'll have to visit Murshidabad to meet the artisans," she told us. In a chat with us, Astrid spoke about her Puja plans and the way she has started exploring Bengal. Read on... This will be your first Puja. What are your plans? I am very excited and I can sense everybody around me is getting ready for the Puja. I don't know yet what I will be doing. But I already got a lot of good advice - where to go, which pandal to visit and more. I think it will be a wonderful experience for me. But Puja also means a mad rush across the city... This is my first time in Kolkata, so I don't know yet. We will see what happens. We will certainly not stay at home. How has Kolkata treated you so far?I arrived here last December, in the middle of the pandemic. A lot of my time here has been spent in the lockdown. I'd have loved to meet many more people actually. I toured around a bit in the city and I met our partners. We have opened our libraries. Students are also coming in for exams. But we want to open it for cultural events - reading, lectures and discussions at the library, theatre and music concerts. I am really missing that. Did you manage to explore the city? Yes, a bit. I took walks around the city. We went to museums. I tried to see as much as possible. Sadly, theatres are closed. Oh, we also took a trip around Hooghly. So I got an idea of the city but I would think there is much more to explore. Besides Bengal, there are other states there that fall under this centre and I will visit those places as well. I would go to Bihar and Jharkhand to inaugurate German Children University. I plan to go to Santiniketan in October. I am looking forward to meeting people we work with - cultural producers, intellectuals and so on. And what about Bengali food?I love it. Actually it is not the first time I am eating Indian food. My husband cooks Indian food at home. He was born in Kolkata and grew up in Mumbai. Then he lived in London for some time and came to Germany, where we met. Hence, Indian food is quite familiar to me. But Bengali food, in particular, is something I am discovering now. It is gorgeous, especially the dish with bekti in mustard sauce.
213
Astrid Wege came to Kolkata last December when the first wave of pandemic was in full swing. Soon after she joined office as the director of Goethe-institut / Max Mueller Bhavan Kolkata, the country experienced second wave. But now that Durga Puja is round the corner, Astrid has started making her plans with colleagues and friends. For an exclusive photoshoot, she chose to wear a magenta Baluchari sari. 'I chose this sari very carefully after researching its heritage. This is so beautiful. I'll have to visit Murshidabad to meet the artisans," she told us. In a chat with us, Astrid spoke about her Puja plans and the way she has started exploring Bengal. Read on... This will be your first Puja. What are your plans? I am very excited and I can sense everybody around me is getting ready for the Puja. I don't know yet what I will be doing. But I already got a lot of good advice - where to go, which pandal to visit and more. I think it will be a wonderful experience for me. But Puja also means a mad rush across the city... This is my first time in Kolkata, so I don't know yet. We will see what happens. We will certainly not stay at home. How has Kolkata treated you so far?I arrived here last December, in the middle of the pandemic. A lot of my time here has been spent in the lockdown. I'd have loved to meet many more people actually. I toured around a bit in the city and I met our partners. We have opened our libraries. Students are also coming in for exams. But we want to open it for cultural events - reading, lectures and discussions at the library, theatre and music concerts. I am really missing that. Did you manage to explore the city? Yes, a bit. I took walks around the city. We went to museums. I tried to see as much as possible. Sadly, theatres are closed. Oh, we also took a trip around Hooghly. So I got an idea of the city but I would think there is much more to explore. Besides Bengal, there are other states there that fall under this centre and I will visit those places as well. I would go to Bihar and Jharkhand to inaugurate German Children University. I plan to go to Santiniketan in October. I am looking forward to meeting people we work with - cultural producers, intellectuals and so on. And what about Bengali food?I love it. Actually it is not the first time I am eating Indian food. My husband cooks Indian food at home. He was born in Kolkata and grew up in Mumbai. Then he lived in London for some time and came to Germany, where we met. Hence, Indian food is quite familiar to me. But Bengali food, in particular, is something I am discovering now. It is gorgeous, especially the dish with bekti in mustard sauce.
214
Calcutta Times Morning BuzzAt the crack of dawn on Mahalaya every year, Bengalis residing all across the globe welcome the auspicious Debipaksha by tuning into their radio sets. Listening to Birendra Krishna Bhadra's Chandipath in his rich baritone û in the iconic All India Radio programme Mahisasuramardini û is an annual ritual. Given the global appeal of the occasion that is followed by Durga Puja festivities, Kolkata's diplomats and expatriate community have decided to give an international twist to the audio montage in collaboration with musician duo Sourendro Mullick and Soumy ojit Das, who will help them present parts of the Mahalaya programme in their respective native languages. On Thursday, newly appointed American Consul General Melinda Pavek, Italian Consul General Gianluca Rubagotti and Goethe-institut/Max Mueller Bhavan director Astrid Wege came together at the Sovabazar Rajbari to shoot for a video that will feature a collage of their performances along with an original agomoni gaan by the duo. A Kolkata-based teacher of Russian origin, Anna Saha, read out the Russian portion of the script.Melinda, who is looking forward to her first Puja in Kolkata, told us, ôFestivals can be a great way to introduce and welcome people to one's culture. It's been just a few weeks since I came here and I'm so excited about Puja.öôI find the idea of worshipping a feminine power really fascinating and the tales of Goddess Durga are truly intriguing,ö added Melinda.Sourendro and Soumyojit have observed that their young foreign students û from both Bengali and international communities û are keen to learn about the significance of Mahalaya. ôUnlike us, they don't grow up with the same festive fervour surrounding Mahalaya and Mahisasuramardini. We always felt the need to reach out to this community û third-generation NRIs and non-Indian international audiences. And who can present it better than the diplomats and cultural officials?ö said Soumyojit, adding, ôI'm grateful to Partha Mukherjee, my professor from St Xavier's for translating the entire thing into English. Based on that, it was further translated into the officials' native languages.öAnother attraction of the video is the performance by Chhau artistes from Purulia who will be seen as Ma Durga, her children and Mahishasura.Sharing more details about the project, Sourendro said, ôNo Bengali can ever avoid the Puja excitement that begins right on Mahalaya, which is on October 6 this year. Even last year, the festive spirit was high despite the pandemic scare. This year is no exception. We will try to bring out that flavour in our video. You might see a Chhau artiste dressed as Saraswati going to work using public transport or you may see someone else preparing dhunuchi in a government office and its smell gradually spreading all over the place. These are just a few ways to show that with Puja almost here, we can't help feeling distracted,ö said Sourendro.The musician is very proud to have involved Chhau artistes and dhakis. ôThis pandemic has wreaked havoc on the livelihood of these artistes. Many of them have been forced to completely stop performing and switch to other occupations. If this goes on, our traditional art forms will become extinct. We, in our very limited capacity, are trying to employ some of these artistes so that they feel encouraged in this hour of crisis,ö Sourendro added.
215
An exhibition of works by German artist, Wolfgang Tillmans will on Friday October 8, open at the Museum of Science and Technology in Accra.

The exhibition, which forms part of the 60th anniversary celebrations, of the Goethe-institute, a German educational and cultural centre, is being organised and supported by Institut für Auslandsbeziehungen in Germany, in collaboration with Goethe-institut, Ghana and the Museum of Science and Technology in Accra.

Titled "Fragile," the exhibition will provide a comprehensive overview of the many-facetted and different forms of artistic expression in his work - from large-scale prints to sculptural objects, video projections and music added to the curatorial work in planning the exhibition of the artist.

It will also showcase more than 200 works from 1986 to 2020, including framed and unframed photographs in various formats.

Wolfgang Tillmans' work occupies a prominent position in the contemporary art world.

Ever since his first exhibitions and publications in the early 1990s, Tillmans' artistic approaches have continually developed.

He is constantly redefining photography both as an image and as a material artefact, be it in the museum space or as an object on the printed page.

His work is based on his never-ceasing curiosity, his intensive research in preparation and a constant testing and advancing of the medium and its technical and aesthetic potential.

The artist's visual language derives from precise observation that reveals a deeply human approach to the complexity of the world.

Familiarity, empathy, friendship, and intimacy are all visible and tangible in his pictures.

"Fragile," which has been shown in Kinshasa, Democratic Republic of Congo; Nairobi, Kenya; Johannesburg, South Africa; Addis Ababa, Ethiopia and Yaounde, Cameroon is expected to end on Thursday November 14, 2012.
216
The European Union in Jordan and the European Union National Institutes for Culture (EUNIC) will celebrate the European Day of Languages on Saturday, October 2, from 12PM until 8PM.

It will be celebrated in cooperation with the participating member states' embassies and cultural centres and in "a strategic partnership " with The Boulevard to encourage language learning and showcase the diversity of European culture to the Jordanian community, according to a EUNIC statement.

The event will be free-of-charge.

Visitors will take part in several activities suitable for all ages, including "mini" language classes, short film screenings, dance and art classes.

Safety measures will be applied during the event to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Facemasks are mandatory for all attendees and only a limited number of people will be able to partake in each activity during any given time slot.

Volunteers will also ask visitors to use sanitising stations before and after each activity, said the statement.

The event is held in cooperation with 11 EUNIC members including: The Embassies of Austria, Belgium, Hungary, Italy, Poland, Spain and Sweden, the Instituto Cervantes, Societa Dante Alighieri, the Institut Français and the Goethe-institut.

The event will also include the participation of three guest countries: Norway, Switzerland, and Ukraine. All participating Member States and Cultural Centres will be organising activities to introduce their official languages, culture and history to Jordanians who attend the event.

"The European Day of Languages is an amazing opportunity for us to build cultural bridges between Jordan and the European Union member states and promote language learning as a means to expand one's cultural boundaries and build bridges of understanding and dialogue," EU Ambassador to Jordan, Maria Hadjitheodosiou commented on the upcoming event.

She added: "We are very proud that this year we have been able to hold this event despite the challenges related to the pandemic, and we are looking forward to another successful event that would be welcomed by the Jordanian public."

Amer Al Tarawneh, Group Chief Operational Officer of Abdali Investment and Development stated: "We are delighted to host the European Day of Languages for the first time at The Boulevard, embracing European linguistic heritage."

"The larger development of the Abdali district continues its efforts to offer a healthy and desirable platform for supporting cultural initiatives for our community," Tarawneh said.

The European Day of Languages has been celebrated around the world every year since 2001. The day is celebrated on, or around, September 26 to raise awareness for the importance of lifelong language learning to increase intercultural understanding.

In Jordan, the annual event is funded by the European Union Delegation in Jordan and is organised by EUNIC Jordan.
217
The European Union in Jordan and the European Union National Institutes for Culture (EUNIC) will celebrate the European Day of Languages on Saturday, October 2, from 12PM until 8PM.

It will be celebrated in cooperation with the participating member states' embassies and cultural centres and in "a strategic partnership " with The Boulevard to encourage language learning and showcase the diversity of European culture to the Jordanian community, according to a EUNIC statement.

The event will be free-of-charge.

Visitors will take part in several activities suitable for all ages, including "mini" language classes, short film screenings, dance and art classes.

Safety measures will be applied during the event to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Facemasks are mandatory for all attendees and only a limited number of people will be able to partake in each activity during any given time slot.

Volunteers will also ask visitors to use sanitising stations before and after each activity, said the statement.

The event is held in cooperation with 11 EUNIC members including: The Embassies of Austria, Belgium, Hungary, Italy, Poland, Spain and Sweden, the Instituto Cervantes, Societa Dante Alighieri, the Institut Français and the Goethe-institut.

The event will also include the participation of three guest countries: Norway, Switzerland, and Ukraine. All participating Member States and Cultural Centres will be organising activities to introduce their official languages, culture and history to Jordanians who attend the event.

"The European Day of Languages is an amazing opportunity for us to build cultural bridges between Jordan and the European Union member states and promote language learning as a means to expand one's cultural boundaries and build bridges of understanding and dialogue," EU Ambassador to Jordan, Maria Hadjitheodosiou commented on the upcoming event.

She added: "We are very proud that this year we have been able to hold this event despite the challenges related to the pandemic, and we are looking forward to another successful event that would be welcomed by the Jordanian public."

Amer Al Tarawneh, Group Chief Operational Officer of Abdali Investment and Development stated: "We are delighted to host the European Day of Languages for the first time at The Boulevard, embracing European linguistic heritage."

"The larger development of the Abdali district continues its efforts to offer a healthy and desirable platform for supporting cultural initiatives for our community," Tarawneh said.

The European Day of Languages has been celebrated around the world every year since 2001. The day is celebrated on, or around, September 26 to raise awareness for the importance of lifelong language learning to increase intercultural understanding.

In Jordan, the annual event is funded by the European Union Delegation in Jordan and is organised by EUNIC Jordan.
218
Simson Ochurub, an advocate for promoting Namibian reading culture, has launched his first book, The Village Girl, at the Goethe-institut on Tuesday.

The 30-year-old author developed the need to find another way to express the voices of the voiceless, pointing to the many challenges marginalised communities face in society.

"From the community judgements to the discrimination and mistreatment of disadvantaged communities, this book was essential," he said.

'The Village Girl' is a fictional novel about a young Himba girl who gets a chance to be in the education system; she moved to the city to study at a tertiary institution, but the big city's many faces became distractive.

She went through many trials and tribulations, but eventually pulled through.

Ochurub is not only interested in publishing a book, but he is more passionate about reviving Namibia's reading culture by revising the old cultural norm of telling stories and putting it in writing. "In the past, the elders would always tell us stories, but this is no longer the case. I want to advocate for the teaching of Namibian literature in our schools because I believe our stories are very relevant to our scholars," he said. The book goes through 15 chapters, with beautiful cultural, tourism and romantic scenes as well as action drama. There is something for everyone. Chloe Brandt, a former Miss Namibia contestant and winner of the best public speaker award 2021, delivered a moving speech about how the storyline is relatable to many Namibians who are migrating to cities.

"It was incredible to see young people participating in this type of launch, and it is exciting to see that there is a reading community in Namibia," she said.

Copies are available in Windhoek and other towns. The author can be reached at 0813051660.
219
Contract notice:Conception, creation, maintenance and further development of a digital German learning offer for the target group of German learners in schools

Major organization : Goethe-institut E.V. - ZENTRALE

Address : Oskar-Von-Miller-Ring 18

Town: Mnchen

Postal Code: 80333

Country :Germany

Email : sara.voracek@goethe.de

Tender notice number : 486652-2021

Notice type : Tender Notice

Open date : 2021-10-25

220
Astrid Wege came to Kolkata last December when the first wave of pandemic was in full swing. Soon after she joined office as the director of Goethe-institut/Max Mueller Bhavan Kolkata, the country experienced second wave. But now that Durga Puja is round the corner, Astrid has started making plans with her colleagues and friends. She even chose to wear a magenta Baluchari sari for an exclusive photoshoot with us ahead of the grand festival. ôI chose this sari very carefully after researching its heritage. This is so beautiful. I'll have to visit Murshidabad to meet the artisans,ö she told us. In a chat with us, Astrid spoke about her Puja plans and the way she has started exploring Bengal. Read onàI am very excited and I can sense everybody around me is getting ready for Durga Puja. I don't know yet what I will be doing. But I already got a lot of good advicewhere to go, which pandal to visit and more. I think it will be a wonderful experience for me.This is my first time in Kolkata, so I don't know yet. We will see what happens. We will certainly not stay at home.I arrived here, last December, in the middle of the pandemic. A lot of my time here has been spent in the lockdown. I'd have loved to meet many more people here. I toured around the city a bit and I met our partners. We have opened our libraries. Students are also coming in for exams. But we want to open it for cultural eventsreading, lectures and discussions at the library, theatre and music concerts. I am really missing that.Yes, a little. I took walks around the city. We went to the museum. I tried to see as much as possible. Sadly, theatres are closed. Oh, we also took a trip around Hooghly. Now, I got an idea about the city but I think there is much more to explore. Besides Bengal, there are other states there that fall under this centre and I will visit those places as well. I will go to Bihar and Jharkhand to inaugurate German Children University. I plan to go to Santiniketan in October. I am looking forward to meeting people we work with û cultural producers, intellectuals and so on.I love it. Actually it is not the first time I am eating Indian food. My husband cooks Indian food at home. He was born in Kolkata and grew up in Mumbai. Then he lived in London for a few years and came to Germany, where we met. Hence, Indian food is quite familiar to me. But Bengali food, in particular, is something I am discovering now. It's great, especially the dish with bekti in mustard sauce.
221
Contract notice: Framework agreement: Implementation of advanced training courses in Germany and online

Major organization : Goethe-institut E.V. - ZENTRALE

Address : Oskar-Von-Miller-Ring 18

Town: Mnchen.
222
Challenging the traditional regularities to express, explore and navigate creative thoughts through the nature of fear, a unique exhibition titled "In the Terrains of Fear" is now being held in the capital.

"Ghartera" - a transmuting art space and collaborating groups of artists with the motif to create alternatives to the established, mainstream narratives, and ideas - is hosting the event.

Inaugurated Friday, the exhibition will run till September 23 from 3pm to 9pm.

With the theme of "fear," 12 different art projects by artists, writers, activists, researchers, collectives, and curators from diverse backgrounds are being showcased at the exhibition, including Biglipseclipse (Yashab Osama Rahman), Razib Datta, Taiara Farhana Tareque, Junaid Iqbal Ishmam, Shehzad Chowdhury, AAA Battery, Project Pudina, Orchid Chakma, Kawsar Mia, Shamset Tabrejee, Oishik Jawad, and Khyapa collective.

Curated by Kazi Tahsin Agaz Apurbo, Ata Mojlish, Aananda Antahleen, and Doito Bonotulshi, the exhibition is a collaboration between Ghartera and the Goethe Pop Up Festival and supported by the Goethe-institut Bangladesh.

Apurbo, one of the curators of Ghartera, said the exhibition is intended to make art more accessible to the public than the traditional approach. "So, it is being organised in the under-construction venue of BBQ Express, a new restaurant located in Lalmatia."

"We have seen how the traditional gallery spaces often instruct and dictate the audiences with the traditional regulations, which is an irony as art should always enjoy adequate independence and freedom. As artists, we believe that art should be interactive and for everybody. So, we are making arts more accessible with our collaborative approach, with a special focus on breaking the fear of the usual and normative practices," he said.

Explaining the name Ghartera, Apurbo said, "The name Ghartera is synonymous with our identity, as the Bengali word refers to stubbornness or opinionated rebellion. The topics tackled and navigated in the show spread across a diverse set of spectrums, and they eventually come together as a criticism of the broader, overarching structures of oppression, and violence."

"Issues like indigenous rights, censorship and free speech, socio-economic struggles, political persecution, surveillance, and social movements, are being expressed in the exhibition through the artworks."

"This edition is the result of two years' effort and failure; which in turn has helped us think, be critical of the art we want to show, and our stances. And this time, we are coming out of the gallery space and curating our show in the construction site of a restaurant, which is a part of Ghartera's fundamental process of critically engaging with and deconstructing the practice of curation," he continued.

"Ghartera seeks to bring together different narratives from different backgrounds that would ultimately create a collective voice of chaos and harmony. It is this collectivity and unity that has been missing from the fine art scene."

"Through this process of creating one's language, and dealing with the consequential struggles and shortcomings, we seek to construct a counter-narrative of the existing socio-political realities, as well as the art scene in a somewhat tenacious way," Apurbo said.
223
The first summer edition of Night Under the Stars (NUTS) will Feature Cassidy on 1 October at the Goethe-institut Namibia. The event will be open to the public and tickets will be sold for N$20 at the gate starting at 19:00. Seats are limited due to social distancing regulations.

Cassidy promises to set the mood for the summer festivities by performing songs from his brand new album set to launch on 28 September.

Cassidy Karon is a multitalented musician, fashion designer, song writer and producer. He is a seven times Namibian Annual Music Award (NAMA) winner as a member of hip-hop due Paradox and has appeared on international television channels such as CNN.

Cassidy describes himself as an electronic musician and experimentation is pivotal to his identity, plus he considers himself a student of life.

"I write about everyday life in Katutura from the perspective of appreciation and I try to celebrate who we are and what we are capable of as a community and act as a voice and reference for children who want to take an alternative approach to life," he said. He celebrates being black and from Katutura by grounding himself within the aspiration to become a catalyst for change in his community.

"I spread a homegrown narrative of hope and overcoming difficulties we face in our communities. I have experienced the Namibian struggle as well as Namibian victory at the highest level," he added.
224
Events starting later this month at the Goethe-institut Cyprus will mark what would have been the 100 th birthday of German artist Joseph Beuys, who had an important impact on the sector in the post war period.

Within the framework of Beuys100, the events programme includes an exhibition, guided tours, film screenings, an online discussion and a round-table discussion between September 22 and October 23.

Action artist, activist, sculptor, draughtsman and professor at the DÈ­sseldorf Art Academy, Beuys' ideas, works and political commitment had a significant impact on the art landscape of the post-war period and on the formation of contemporary and socially-engaged art practices. The theory of sculpture is a methodology, which Beuys conceived and applied as a means rather than a medium, and his approach towards social sculpture influenced and inspired art practitioners and society, and still does. "His statement: 'everyone is an artist'," say the organisers, "developed as part of his social sculpture projects, feels more relevant than ever, relating to the urgency towards reforming social compositions."

The Goethe's Social Sculptures project kicked off with a workshop last April for local artists which drew from and challenged Beuys' notion of social sculpture vis-a vis the context of our given time and place. The artists involved used different media, comprising of sound, sculpture, engraving, photography, installation, performance, some of which are participatory, and so on.

The works and actions created for the exhibition present social sculpture in its diversity and plurality. Sculpture is explored as a metaphor of movement, a metaphor we live by as society. Social Sculptures' movement carries across compositions of reality. By sharing ways to get closer to the unceasingly forming and reforming of social compositions we are part of, the featuring artists grasp the notions of 'social' and 'sculpture' in their plasticity and resilience, organisers say.

Fractions of the exchange that took place during the workshop will be presented as part of the exhibition, serving as exercises that enabled a more intimate relationship between the featuring artists and the context they are revisiting.

The exhibition opening on September 22 will take place at 7pm with live performances while on September 29 a film screening will happen outdoors on Beuys directed by Andres Veiel. A guided tour of the exhibition will be offered on October 6 at 6pm and another on October 20. An online talk via Zoom with Rhea ThÈµnges-Stringaris will take place on October 7 and later on in the month, two more film screenings will be hosted at Goethe-institut, on Tuesday 12 and Monday 18. The exhibition and the series of events will close on October 22 with a roundtable discussion with the participating artists and collaborating practitioners, moderated by the curator.

Social Sculptures

Exhibition and series of events celebrating Joseph Beuys 100th birth anniversary. September 22-October 23. Goethe-institut Cyprus, Nicosia. Monday-Friday: 2pm-7pm. Saturday: 10am-2pm. 
225
The Otjomuise Live Arts Festival (OLAF) announced the open call for artistic works for the inaugural one-week-long live arts festival set to take place on 06 to 13 November 2021 in Windhoek.

Co-produced by the National Theatre of Namibia and Goethe-institut Namibia, the festival aims to bridge life and the arts in the city, by offering opportunities for live artistic forms to be showcased and/or exhibited within Windhoek's public spaces.

The name Otjomuise stems from the Otjiherero name for the city, which means 'place of steam'. The name of the festival reflects not only the city's unique environmental character but also its rich heritage and searing creativity to impact its inhabitants.

OLAF is largely brought about by the inaccessibility of the majority of Windhoek's inhabitants to various artistic expressions; often limited to indoor, and at times, inaccessible areas of the city. Thus, OLAF offers opportunities for immersive, experimental, and refreshing artistic forms that can be showcased or installed in public spaces where life and the arts can meet.

The themes of proposed works can cover a wide range and are not limited. Artistic works are encouraged to be short, small-scaled, logistically achievable, and family-friendly. Ideas and works that are often excluded from institutional, traditional contexts are highly encouraged.

Though a selection of sites is already offered for the festival, artists are welcome to suggest preferred public sites. Additionally, all proposed works should adhere to the health and safety protocols outlined by local authorities' regulations.

Due to resource allocations, ensembles should not exceed four members. A standard material, rehearsal, and transport fee of N$ 1000 will be provided to each contracted artist, who will be remunerated with an additional fee.

Individual and ensemble Windhoek-based performing, visual, digital, and conceptual artists are openly called to propose small-scaled works to feature in the festival, by applying through the online application form on www.ntn.org.na The application deadline is 21 September 2021.
226
The Otjomuise Live Arts Festival (OLAF) announced the open call for artistic works for the inaugural one-week-long live arts festival set to take place on 06 to 13 November 2021 in Windhoek.

Co-produced by the National Theatre of Namibia and Goethe-institut Namibia, the festival aims to bridge life and the arts in the city, by offering opportunities for live artistic forms to be showcased and/or exhibited within Windhoek's public spaces.

The name Otjomuise stems from the Otjiherero name for the city, which means 'place of steam'. The name of the festival reflects not only the city's unique environmental character but also its rich heritage and searing creativity to impact its inhabitants.

OLAF is largely brought about by the inaccessibility of the majority of Windhoek's inhabitants to various artistic expressions; often limited to indoor, and at times, inaccessible areas of the city. Thus, OLAF offers opportunities for immersive, experimental, and refreshing artistic forms that can be showcased or installed in public spaces where life and the arts can meet.

The themes of proposed works can cover a wide range and are not limited. Artistic works are encouraged to be short, small-scaled, logistically achievable, and family-friendly. Ideas and works that are often excluded from institutional, traditional contexts are highly encouraged.

Though a selection of sites is already offered for the festival, artists are welcome to suggest preferred public sites. Additionally, all proposed works should adhere to the health and safety protocols outlined by local authorities' regulations.

Due to resource allocations, ensembles should not exceed four members. A standard material, rehearsal, and transport fee of N$ 1000 will be provided to each contracted artist, who will be remunerated with an additional fee.

Individual and ensemble Windhoek-based performing, visual, digital, and conceptual artists are openly called to propose small-scaled works to feature in the festival, by applying through the online application form on www.ntn.org.na The application deadline is 21 September 2021.
227
The Goethe-institut organizes various types of global digital events. To support various steps in the conception and implementation of such events, services should be commissioned externally.

The contract is divided into a total of 2 lots:

Lot 1: conceptual design and implementation of online and / or hybrid events.

Lot 2: technical conception and implementation of online and / or hybrid events.

Major organization : Goethe-institut E.V. - ZENTRALE

Address : oskar-von-miller-ring 18

town: mnchen
228
Goethe-institute Bangladesh is organising a conference on masculinity. M3: Man, Male, Masculine is the South-Asian regional project on the theme of masculinities. Goethe-institute Bangladesh is organising two programmes, as a part of M3. A talk on Performing Masculinity will take place on September 4 at 6:00pm. Author Fikri Anil Altintas and Dhaka Tribune's Business Editor, Esha Aurora will speak at this session. At 7:30pm, a panel discussion on 'Performing Masculinity in Contemporary South Asian Cinema' will be moderated by Meenakshi Shedde (South Asia Delegate to the Berlin Film Festival, independent film curator, journalist, India).
229
The International Literature Festival Berlin has been organising an annual international Worldwide read for a few years. This year, the reading has reached Cyprus too and is intended to commemorate those who died during the pandemic.

An event is coming up on Sunday at Goethe-institut inviting poets and writers to share their work, commemorating those lost during the pandemic.

"For more than a year," say the organisers, "the world has been in the grip of the pandemic... Many people die alone, behind closed doors, and are buried in small circles. In many cases, there is no way for relatives and friends to say goodbye -- and if they do, it is at a distance or in a digital setting.

"Literature has the potential to give expression to this situation," they add, "to counter isolation at least through reception. It finds narratives away from the everyday images of horror, tells of loss from different perspectives, and helps to make the incomprehensible tangible, the intangible comprehensible."

Twelve poets and writers have been invited to take part in Cyprus' reading event: Nora Nadjarian, Alexandros Chronides, Eleni Artemiou-Photiadou, Erato Ioannou, Manuella Mavromichalis, Paula Savvides, Neshe Yashin, Annetta Benzar, Ruta Dzikaraite, Alev Adil, Michael-Angelos Englezos and Lisa Suhair-Majaj will either perform physically at the event or with a video-poem as guests join them at the garden of the Goethe-institut Cyprus in memory of the losses of the pandemic.

Worldwide Reading

12 poets and writers recite their work in a worldwide reading event in memory of those who died during the pandemic. September 5. Goethe-institut Cyprus, Nicosia. 8pm. 
230
In this process, framework agreements are put out to tender for the supply of various furniture to the Goethe-instituts around the world.

The award is made in five lots:

The 1: Brodrehsthle

Lot 2: office desks and storage furniture

Lot 3: conference and visitor furniture

Lot 4: classroom and seminar room furniture

Lot 5: folding and stacking tables

A detailed description of the required service can be found in the tender documents.

Major organization : Goethe-institut E.V. - ZENTRALE

Address : Postal Address: Oskar-Von-Miller-Ring 18

Town: Mnchen

Postal Code: 80333

Country :Germany
231
Contract notice: Framework agreements for the printing of examination material

Lot 1: examiner and candidate sheets

Lot 2: templates and certificates

Major organization : Goethe-institut E.V. - ZENTRALE

Address : Oskar-Von-Miller-Ring 18

Town: Mnchen.
232
With the theme, 'The Invincible Hands; An exhibition of Art by Nigerian Women,' an all-female exhibition is set to ignite the prestigious Yemisi Shyllow Museum, Pan Atlantic University, Lekki-Epe Expressway on Saturday August 28.

With the objective of addressing the disproportional representation of male to female established artists in Nigeria and create awareness of this disparity, the show will celebrate the artistic contribution of female Nigerian artists toward the growth and development of Nigeria's creative culture.

In presenting these works to a wide audience, the exhibition highlights artistry that transcend stereotypes. A first of its kind at the Museum, the designer-cum-curator, Olufisayo Bakare, is tackling the issue of underrepresentation of female artists, giving credence to their individuality, voices and creativity.

The exhibition aims at being an active agent in giving these artists higher visibility. The goal of 'Invincible hands' is to celebrate the contribution of underrepresented Nigerian women artists in post-colonial and contemporary eras, to amplify their work and bridge inequality gaps in the art sector and to place The Invincible Hands of women artists back into our art education and art history. The exhibition is on view at the museum from August 28, 2021 through January 25, 2022.

Although art tends to be elitist, the exhibition takes a historic gaze at the past, paying homage to the founding mothers of Art in Nigeria, while drawing inferences in the contemporary art space, and solidifying a foundation for the future.

The designer-cum-curator Bakare pays close attention to the works of indigenous and Pan-African artists and maker-communities by establishing unique platforms for accessibility. Positioned as a cultural gatekeeper of Black histories, she recognizes that educating the masses through artistic and cultural ecosystems is at the bedrock of society. By connecting varied dialogues through an exchange of ideas, Bakare celebrates historical signposts. With over a decade dedicated to supporting the arts, Bakare has stepped into the limelight by partnering with Yemisi Shyllon Museum of Art to educate through the arts.

Bakare is an integral part of the 'Precolonial Societies of Nigeria' program, formulating the teaching manual for the Ile-Ife pre-colonial society. Buttressing this, Bakare is an active member of the ongoing 'Museums of the Future' program facilitated by Goethe-institut.

Bakare's passion for travel, anthropology, and culture has aided several platforms of creative expression with businesses such as Interior Living, and The Yellow of Lagos. She is joining forces with institutions like YSMA to curate exhibitions and constructs site-specific installations within the creative sector and art world.
233
The Goethe-institut organizes various types of global digital events. To support various steps in the conception and implementation of such events, services should be commissioned externally.

The contract is divided into a total of 2 lots:

Lot 1: conceptual design and implementation of online and / or hybrid events.

Lot 2: technical conception and implementation of online and / or hybrid events.

Major organization : Goethe-institut E.V. - ZENTRALE

Address : Oskar-Von-Miller-Ring 18

Town: Mnchen

Postal Code: 80333

Country :Germany
234
The journalistic-editorial contributions on Goethe.de should not only be offered in text form, but in a range of contemporary formats. This includes, for example, the conception and creation of multimedia reports, video production, live formats for social media, Instagram formats (stories, IG TVs), cross-media storytelling, infographics, editorial graphic elements, chat debates, 360-degree videos, VR Applications, podcasts as well as animations, video productions, quizzes or games.

The production of editorial content from a German and global perspective for the editorial offers of the Goethe-institut abroad as well as other web products of the Goethe-institut or by partners of the Goethe-institut is commissioned via a framework agreement.

The contract is divided into a total of 2 lots:

Los A: Multimedia Design Interaction

Lot B: text / image

A detailed description of the required performance can be found in Appendix A.1 "Description of Services" and Appendix A.2 "Description of Services"

Major organization : Goethe-institut E.V. - ZENTRALE

Address : Postal Address: Oskar-Von-Miller-Ring 18

Town: Mnchen

Postal Code: 80333

Country :Germany
235
The Goethe-institut Namibia in collaboration with the Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) has once again offered an opportunity for entrepreneurs in Namibia's creative industry to identify business opportunities, develop business ideas and create economic growth.

Following the call for applications earlier this year and the submissions from more than 150 entrepreneurs, an independent jury selected the top ten businesses for the 2021 programme.

The CEP programme kicked off in early August, meaning beneficiaries have started attending regular workshops, mentoring sessions and peer-to-peer reviews.

Established in 2019, the CEP is a training programme for start-ups who are to receive incubation services under the GIZ Start-Up Namibia Programme, supported to the tune of N$570,000 by the Bundesregierung (German Government). GIZ Project Manager, Anna Vambe said this year's applications were a surprise.

"From GIZ's side we are extremely excited to support the Creative Entrepreneurship Initiative in its second round, with funding from the German Government. This year's finalists make up a diverse and promising cohort, and we cannot wait to see them thrive in the creative industries in Namibia and beyond," she said.

The CEP offers creative entrepreneurs access to information and practices concerning business development, entrepreneurial self-understanding, design thinking, marketing, customer research, branding, sales, legal principles, establishing partnerships, insurance, finances management, health and other aspects important for a business to grow.

The three-fold aim of this project is to encourage and inspire creative entrepreneurs in Namibia to identify lucrative business opportunities; develop their business ideas; and to implement a business plan. The long term aim of the CEP is to create economic growth in the creative industries.

"At the Goethe-institut, we believe that while creativity is the engine of innovation, connection and collaboration are the fuel," says Dennis Schroeder, Director of the Goethe-institut Namibia. "During these months we do our best in providing all the necessary support for upcoming creative entrepreneurs--because we believe in unlocking unrealized value that can have a deep impact on markets, on Namibia, and on the individuals who have the courage and the drive to embark on this venture," he said.

The CEP call for applications earlier this year targeted entrepreneurs in film and videography, digital product design, marketing and information and communication technology. One of the beneficiaries, John Keendjele of Jele Interactive that specializes in website development and app design is optimistic about being part of the CEP

"I am hopefully looking to gain some valuable industry knowledge on how to become a successful entrepreneur within Namibia and Africa. Being in the CEP also provides the opportunity to network closely with other entrepreneurs trying to succeed in this ever challenging business landscape," he said.

Kevin Sabati of KESA Media echoed the sentiments saying that apart from networking with other entrepreneurs, he hopes to scale up his business and improve on his business model. KeSa Media specializes in creative solutions for events.

Beneficiaries will throughout the course of the CEP engage frequently with two facilitators, namely Chantal Claassen from Dololo Operations in Namibia and Lindiwe Sindani from Karani Leadership in South Africa. As Co-Founder of Dololo Operations, Claassen is passionate about entrepreneurship and focuses on the early-stages of entrepreneurship development in the direction of sustainable business.

Sindani has extensive experience in asset management, investment funding and public speaking. She is passionate about educating and motivating people to close the wide wealth gap in Africa through partnerships and strategies that address emotional, cultural and psychological causes of self-destructive spending.

Beneficiaries will at the end of the CEP present their business pitch for facilitators and a panel to evaluate their progress and compare it to their initial pitch delivered at the beginning of the CEP. The top performers will be rewarded accordingly.
236
The Goethe-institut Namibia in collaboration with the Deutsche Gesellschaft fr Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) has announced the top 10 beneficiaries for its 2021 Creative Entrepreneurship Programme (CEP) aimed to identify business opportunities, develop business ideas and create economic growth.

Established in 2019, the CEP is a training programme for start-ups who are to receive incubation services under the GIZ Start-Up Namibia Programme, supported to the tune of N.dollars 570 000 by the Bundesregierung (German government).

GIZ Project Manager, Anna Vambe in a media statement on Wednesday said this year's applications were a surprise.

'From GIZ's side, we are extremely excited to support the creative entrepreneurship initiative in its second round, with funding from the German government. This year's finalists make up a diverse and promising cohort, and we cannot wait to see them thrive in the creative industries in Namibia and beyond,' she said.

The CEP offers creative entrepreneurs access to information and practices concerning business development, entrepreneurial self-understanding, design thinking, marketing, customer research, branding, sales, legal principles, establishing partnerships, insurance, finances management, health and other aspects important for a business to grow, the statement reads.

It further indicated that the three-fold aim of the project is to encourage and inspire creative entrepreneurs in Namibia to identify lucrative business opportunities; develop their business ideas and implement a business plan. The long-term aim of the CEP is to create economic growth in the creative industries.

On his part, Goethe-institut Namibia Director, Dennis Schroeder was quoted in the statement saying they believe that while creativity is the engine of innovation, connection and collaboration are the fuel.

'During these months we do our best in providing all the necessary support for upcoming creative entrepreneurs, because we believe in unlocking unrealised value that can have a deep impact on markets, on Namibia, and on the individuals who have the courage and the drive to embark on this venture,' Schroeder said.

The beneficiaries include; Daniel Nelumbu, John Keendjele, Kevin Sabati, Mitch Goaseb, Moses Gabriel, Tutaleni Ilonga, Veronica Frederico and Vaughan Weiss, Sharon van der Smit, Zachary von Francois and Andreas Gustav.
237
Queer Wave, the island's LGBTIQ+ film festival which launched last summer, is taking place physically for the first time this September in Nicosia. This second edition of the festival, held from September 3 to 12 in the old town, is organised with the support of NiMAC and features over two dozen films.

Last year, the pilot version of the festival was held online in August in between lockdowns, during the brief summer relief. It was created as a response to the problematic and chronic absence of LGBTIQ+ films from the Cypriot market and focuses on films that had never been screened on the island before. This year, Queer Wave returns for an in-person version and with even more topics to address.

During the 10 days of the 2021 festival, more than 30 award-winning short- and feature-length films will be screened at Theatro Polis, whose subject matters explore a range of experiences from across the LGBTIQ+ spectrum. The screenings will be accompanied by discussions with Cypriot filmmakers and members of the community, and a variety of events will be held throughout the festival. These discussions, providing visibility to local filmmakers and encouraging social dialogue on LGBTIQ+ rights, are supported by the Bank of Cyprus. Many more official institutions are supporters of the festival including the British Council, Goethe-institut Zypern, Institut Français de Chypre and the embassies of Finland, Ireland and Spain amongst others.

Continuing to amplify voices, the festival aims to provide a safe space for self-expression for the LGBTIQ+ community and its allies, by embracing diversity and enriching the quality of cultural events in Cyprus. Following its first edition online, Queer Wave received international recognition as one of the 20 finalists shortlisted for the 2021 Commonwealth Youth Awards, amongst 1000 applications from 43 countries of the Commonwealth.

The festival's location isn't accidental either. Queer Wave 2021 will be taking place in Nicosia's old town, intending to welcome audiences from both sides of the buffer zone, and strengthening the ties between Cyprus' communities. The festival's primary venue will be Theatro Polis OPAP with a hub space extending to The Old Powerhouse bar across the street for all of its parallel events that are to follow.
238
Contract awarded for Services Conducting a German exam for students of Applied Linguistics and Philology

Date of conclusion of the contract: July 6, 2021

Contractor name : Goethe-institut KRAKAU INSTITUTE OF CULTURE AND SCIENTIFIC AND TECHNICAL INFORMATION OF THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY

Contractor address : Street: Rynek Glwny.
239
Contract notice: Storage and logistics services for the Goethe-institut

Major organization : Goethe-institut E. V. ZENTRALE

Address : postal address: oskar-von-miller-ring 18

town: mnchen.
240
The Goethe-institut Namibia has joined seven other institutes to showcase 'Family Matters', an online exhibition that explores various aspects of the social family unit in different African countries.

The Institut said the exhibition showcases 29 families who tell their stories through interviews, in video, audio, photographic and textual formation explained their religion and finances to marriage and travel.

They explained that the exhibition of the project's content provides viewers with insight regarding people's perception of the family unit, power dynamics, how far the concept of a family extends and relations with previous generations.

"The content produced was mediated, curated, directed by divers individuals, each generously bringing themselves to the work and sharing their interpretation of the brief," they added.

The Institute further explained that the short videos are not campaign material for any ideologies and provide viewers with enough experience to identify themselves and stimulate conversation.

"In Namibia viewers are welcomed into the homes of five families who share their lives and histories, from a same sex couple, a traditional Christian family, to exile during the liberation struggle and welcoming a step child, these videos are testimony of the diverse and young African country," they concluded.
241
Goethe -- Institut Namibia latest ,Virtually Yours gathering will take place on Saturday, 14 August at 15h00 (CAT), featuring prize-winning Zimbabwean author, Siphiwe Gloria Ndlovu, who will discuss her latest novel, 'The History of Man' with other award-winning author and hostess, Zukiswa Wanner.

Set in an unnamed Southern African country, 'The History of Man' tells the story of Emil Coetzee who as a civil servant in his fifties washes his hands of blood when a ceasefire is announced and the colonial rule is over. The book explores his life that within context and in comparison to that of his parents is different in many ways.

"I am fascinated with history in general and, particularly, with how it informs and impacts our present. Therefore, my work tends to explore how personal, social and political histories shape our understanding, experience and sense of self, community, country and the world," said Ndlovu.

'The History of Man' follows 'The Theory of Flight' that is also set both in the colonial and postcolonial eras. Ndlovu said living in the post-colonial era and having experienced a lot around the world, she wrote The History of Man as a critique of the colonial narrative and the coloniser's favoured position.

"The colonial narrative has always seemed extremely limited to me, especially because it privileges the voice and the experience of the coloniser. I decided to write from the coloniser's perspective to show not only the limits but also the different kinds of violence that are the product of this way of ordering, seeing and experiencing the world," she said.

'The History of Man' is shortlisted for The Sunday Times/CNA Fiction Prize and 'The Theory

of Flight' won the Sunday Times Barry Ronge Fiction Prize in 2019. Ndlovu's short film,

'Graffiti', won several awards including the Silver Dhow at the Zanzibar International Film

Festival.

Being from Zimbabwe, Ndlovu's novels are set in the same unnamed Southern African country for a reason. She explains how having experienced four name changes during its modern history, it made more sense to leave the country unnamed.

"More importantly, not naming the country allows the story to travel and transport itself so that while it is very much a story about a particular place, it is also, at the same time, a story that can take place anywhere, which, I hope, helps the reader engage and empathise more with what is happening within the story world," she said.

Asked about the relevance of her stories to readers in Namibia, the rest of Africa and the world at large, Ndlovu said that while the beauty of literature lies in its interpretation she hopes readers engage critically and creatively with the issues raised in the novel.

"It is important for the reader to engage with the ways in which Emil Coetzee was socialised to think about whiteness and maleness because the violence of this way of thinking and being is still very much with us in the present - we see it in the global rise of white supremacy and neo-Nazism in our 21st-century world," she said.

The Virtual Gatherings are held on Zoom and interested persons may register using this link and stand the chance of winning a copy.
242
Goethe-institut Namibia latest .Virtually Yours gathering will take place on Saturday, 14 August at 15h00 (CAT), featuring prize-winning Zimbabwean author, Siphiwe Gloria Ndlovu, who will discuss her latest novel, 'The History of Man' with other award-winning author and hostess, Zukiswa Wanner.

Set in an unnamed Southern African country, 'The History of Man' tells the story of Emil Coetzee who as a civil servant in his fifties washes his hands of blood when a ceasefire is announced and the colonial rule is over. The book explores his life that within context and in comparison to that of his parents is different in many ways.

"I am fascinated with history in general and, particularly, with how it informs and impacts our present. Therefore, my work tends to explore how personal, social and political histories shape our understanding, experience and sense of self, community, country and the world," said Ndlovu.

'The History of Man' follows 'The Theory of Flight' that is also set both in the colonial and postcolonial eras. Ndlovu said living in the post-colonial era and having experienced a lot around the world, she wrote The History of Man as a critique of the colonial narrative and the coloniser's favoured position.

"The colonial narrative has always seemed extremely limited to me, especially because it privileges the voice and the experience of the coloniser. I decided to write from the coloniser's perspective to show not only the limits but also the different kinds of violence that are the product of this way of ordering, seeing and experiencing the world," she said.

'The History of Man' is shortlisted for The Sunday Times/CNA Fiction Prize and 'The Theory of Flight' won the Sunday Times Barry Ronge Fiction Prize in 2019. Ndlovu's short film,

'Graffiti', won several awards including the Silver Dhow at the Zanzibar International Film

Festival.

Being from Zimbabwe, Ndlovu's novels are set in the same unnamed Southern African country for a reason. She explains how having experienced four name changes during its modern history, it made more sense to leave the country unnamed.

"More importantly, not naming the country allows the story to travel and transport itself so that while it is very much a story about a particular place, it is also, at the same time, a story that can take place anywhere, which, I hope, helps the reader engage and empathise more with what is happening within the story world," she said.

Asked about the relevance of her stories to readers in Namibia, the rest of Africa and the world at large, Ndlovu said that while the beauty of literature lies in its interpretation she hopes readers engage critically and creatively with the issues raised in the novel.

"It is important for the reader to engage with the ways in which Emil Coetzee was socialised to think about whiteness and maleness because the violence of this way of thinking and being is still very much with us in the present--we see it in the global rise of white supremacy and neo-Nazism in our 21st-century world," she said.

The Virtual Gatherings are held on Zoom and interested persons may register using this linkand stand the chance of winning a copy.
243
The Ambassador of Germany to Namibia, Herbert Beck recently handed over a donation of brass instruments to the QueenZab Brass Band from Groot Aub.

The donation which included trumpets, trombones, tubas, a marching band drum set, an euphonium and music stands worth N$110,735, was received by Maureen Rooi, leader of the Brass Band.

The funding was provided by the Goethe-institut in the framework of their support to music groups in countries all over the world.

Rooi said they did not expect such a quick response and assistance, especially in such a difficult time like this one we are in.

"We will make use of the donation in order to get the youth more involved in learning how to play the instruments, and it is a great help for the youth to be more involved in music than to be on the streets," she added.

Ambassador Beck said the cultural programme work, which promotes art and exhibitions, films, theatre, dance, literature and music, is a key component of the foreign cultural and education policy of Germany.

"We are glad to support the QueenZab Brass Band with instruments so that they will be able to continue their work in the community and we are looking forward to seeing and hearing the instruments in action once the COVID-19 pandemic is over, so please stay healthy," he concluded.
244
The Goethe-institut in the Sub-Saharan African Region launched the GoetheUpcycling call for ideas to contribute to sustainability through various measures.

Upcycling is the process of transforming waste or useless materials into products of new value. In contrast to downcycling, this form of recycling results in the recovery of materials.

The Institut said concepts and ideas for upcycling should be submitted and the selected ideas will receive financial support of up to EUR 1000 and is open to all creative people including librarians, craftsmen, artists, designers and anyone who has a good idea that meets the competition criteria.

"There are no restrictions on theme or content, the focus is on the theme of upcycling and the creative process and mostly recycled materials should be used and the jury consisting of representatives from the field of upcycling, cultural and creative industries will select the 8 best ideas," they explained.

The Goethe-institut said the presentation of the submissions and the winners will be done digitally and applying participants must submit a presentation poster with pictures, drawing, collages of the object or a description of the upcycling project.

"A simplified curriculum vitae, cost estimate for the creation of the object or the realization of the project, a statement, description of the object, project with text and video, applications must be submitted in digital form only and the deadline for submission is 15 September," they concluded.
245
Goethe -- Institut Namibia, in collaboration with StArt Art Gallery, will present a takeaway exhibition for the 'Family Matters - Familiensachen' project on 28 July at 6PM (CAT) online via Zoom.

This project was initiated by the Goethe-institut Namibia in late 2019 and explores various aspects of the social family unit in seven African countries.

In collaboration with their respective Goethe-instituts, creative content producers in Angola, Burkina Faso, DRC, Kenya, Namibia, Rwanda and South Africa worked to record and tell the stories of 29 families covering subjects from religion and finances to marriage and travel. Featuring are five families from Namibia in short videos.

The content of this project is showcased online via the Goethe-institut Namibia website, as well as in the form of a 'pocket exhibition' or zine (a small-circulation, self-published pamphlet). With the intensity of the pandemic in Namibia and the inability to host a traditional exhibition, this pamphlet functions as a takeaway exhibition that can be collected and explored in conjunction with the website.

"Photographs and films depicting Africans are inescapably tied to colonial histories, when they were first used to create patronising and problematic depictions to satisfy an ethnocentric and western gaze. Over the past few decades, this narrative has been challenged by creative producers living on the continent, who have taken these mediums and re-moulded them. The fragments of this project, brought together here, are all part of this growing body of respectful representation and self-reflection," said Helen Harris & Gina Figueira from StArt Art Gallery.

The online launch will consist of a virtual walk-through of the zine followed by a walk-through of the website and a discussion with some of the participating content creators.

Interested attendees are invited to collect a zine ahead of the exhibition from 19 July at the Windhoek branch of Goethe-institut, located 1-5 Fidel Castro Street. Those in Swakopmund: can contact Lendl Izaaks on WhatsApp: +264811273286.
246
Goethe-institut Namibia, in collaboration with StArt Art Gallery, will present a takeaway exhibition for the 'Family Matters--Familiensachen' project on 28 July at 6PM (CAT) online via Zoom.

This project was initiated by the Goethe-institut Namibia in late 2019 and explores various aspects of the social family unit in seven African countries.

In collaboration with their respective Goethe-instituts, creative content producers in Angola, Burkina Faso, DRC, Kenya, Namibia, Rwanda and South Africa worked to record and tell the stories of 29 families covering subjects from religion and finances to marriage and travel. Featuring are five families from Namibia in short videos.

The content of this project is showcased online via the Goethe-institut Namibia website, as well as in the form of a 'pocket exhibition' or zine (a small-circulation, self-published pamphlet). With the intensity of the pandemic in Namibia and the inability to host a traditional exhibition, this pamphlet functions as a takeaway exhibition that can be collected and explored in conjunction with the website.

"Photographs and films depicting Africans are inescapably tied to colonial histories, when they were first used to create patronising and problematic depictions to satisfy an ethnocentric and western gaze. Over the past few decades, this narrative has been challenged by creative producers living on the continent, who have taken these mediums and re-moulded them. The fragments of this project, brought together here, are all part of this growing body of respectful representation and self-reflection," said Helen Harris & Gina Figueira from StArt Art Gallery.

The online launch will consist of a virtual walk-through of the zine followed by a walkthrough of the website and a discussion with some of the participating content creators.

Interested attendees are invited to collect a zine ahead of the exhibition from 19 July at the Windhoek branch of Goethe-institut, located 1-5 Fidel Castro Street. Those in Swakopmund: can contact Lendl Izaaks on WhatsApp: +264811273286.
247
Kolkata: A student of Heritage School, Ranjika Basu Majumdar, has topped the International Baccalaureate Diploma Programme (IBDP), achieving a 45/45 score to become part of the top 1% of such students globally. This is the first time anywhere in eastern India that a student has got the "perfect score". A multi-talented 18-year-old, Majumdar will be leaving the country soon to pursue an undergraduate programme in international relations in the Netherlands.Majumdar had initially taken up science in the ISC stream for Plus-II, but, after attending classes for three months, realised that pure science was not for her. "I wanted to study social sciences and languages alongside science and maths, and that was possible only in the IB Board. So I switched over. I was lucky that my school runs two boards simultaneously," she said.Majumdar has been learning German for five years and has won scholarships from Goethe-institut to visit Gernany. "It was then that I realised that I needed to be in a stream of studies that would lead me to Europe," she said. The student has got admission to the Leiden University in Netherlands for a three-year UG programme in international relations and organisations, and her campus is next to the International Court of Justice at the Hague. "It is so exciting to think that I will be able to witness events unfold live in front of me rather than just read about them. I will be at the heart of global politics," she said.Majumdar had six subjects in her IB Plus-II programme that were divided into three majors and three standard subjects. "I am happy that I could study maths and chemistry along with languages and social science subjects. This has broadened my vista," she said. Proud of her achievements, principal of the school Seema Sapru said, "We had expected Majumdar to do well, but she has surpassed our expectations. She is multi-talented; a trained vocalist, an adept public speaker, and a brilliant student. She is among the top 1% IB students this year to get the perfect score."
248
More evenings of outdoor cinema are coming to Nicosia with the Sommerkino (summer cinema) at the Goethe-institut Cyprus. A varied programme of short and feature films in the garden this July starts with the short film programme Short Export on Friday.

The Short Export -- Made in Germany 2021 programme once again and for the 16th time presents outstanding German short films around the world. In an unconventional yet authentic manner, they deal with change and challenges, home, arrival and overcoming trauma. They are powerful, loud and calm -- and sometimes humorous.

Short Export is a German-French cooperation with this year's programme consisting of the following short films: INNdependence, Postpartum, The One Who Crossed The Sea, Seahorse, The Chimney Swift and Masel Tov Cocktail.

The open-air screenings continue from July 19 to 23 with a selection of films with or by the renowned German actress, screenwriter and director Maria Schrader. She has shone as a leading actress in award-winning films such as Aimee & Jaguar (1999) and with the films Liebesleben (2007), Vor der MorgenrÈµte (2016) and Unorthodox (2020) showing that she is an outstanding artist also behind the camera. Her latest film, Ich bin dein Mensch, has also been widely praised and nominated and will be screened at the Goethe-institut Cyprus as part of the Berlinale Selection 2021 at the end of November.

The summer film series begins with Aimee & Jaguar on July 19, based on a true story showing the love between two German women, the Jewish-German Felice Schragenheim (Schrader) and Lily Wust (Juliane KÈµhler), wife of a Nazi and mother of four children, during the Second World War. Schrader and KÈµhler were awarded the Silver Bear for Best Actress in 1999.

The second film, Liebesleben (Love Life) on July 20, is Schrader's directorial debut and the film adaption of the bestselling novel of the same name by Israeli author Zeruya Shalev, which is about the dependent love of a young woman for her father's friend. Schrader translates the book's long inner monologues into impressive images, for which the film won awards in the categories of cinematography, production design and music. It was shot in Israel with Israeli actors.

Schwestern (Sisters) on the following evening, is a warm-hearted comedy in which the main character, played by Schrader, tries to establish contact with her younger sister, who has decided to enter a convent. The secular family does not understand this step.

In Vergiss mein Ich (Lose My Self) by Jan Schomburg, screened on July 22, Schrader plays a woman who has lost her biographical memory after contracting encephalitis. The film was nominated for several awards and received one for cinematography at the Festival des Deutschen Films (Festival of German Film) in 2014.

July 23's Vor der MorgenrÈµte (Stefan Zweig: Farewell to Europe) is the fifth film of the Institut's summer cinema and the second film Schrader directed, and filmed in 2016. It focuses on Austrian-Jewish author Stefan Zweig and his wife Lotte, who flee to America to escape the Nazis. With Vor der MorgenrÈµte, Schrader succeeded in making a haunting and subliminally incendiary film on the subject of exile that also reflects part of European cultural history.

Sommerkino

Short export films. July 16. Tribute films to Maria Schrader. July 19-23. Goethe-institut Cyprus garden, Nicosia. 8.30pm. With subtitles in English. Free admission, reservations are necessary.
249
Contract notice: Storage and logistics services for the Goethe-institut

Major organization : Goethe-institut E. V. ZENTRALE

Address : postal address: oskar-von-miller-ring 18

town: mnchen.
250
Contract notice: Storage and logistics services for the Goethe-institut

Major organization : Goethe-institut E. V. ZENTRALE

Address : Postal Address: Oskar-Von-Miller-Ring 18

Town: Mnchen
251
Music in Africa Foundation in collaboration with Germany's Goethe-institut has launched a Sound Connects Fund worth £4m aimed at supporting the work of creatives and cultural organisations in the southern African region.

The initiative is supported by the ACP-EU Culture Programme which was established by a secretariat of the African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) Group of States and gets financial backing from the European Union (EU) and Goethe-institut.

Zimbabwe's creatives and cultural organisations in the performing arts, animation, film, photography, videography, gaming and visual arts sectors are eligible to apply for funding.

The grant will be awarded annually from 2021 to 2024 with successful applicants receiving between £35 000 and £180 000.

The first call for grant applications opened on 17 June 2021 and will close at midnight on Sunday 25 July 2021.

Music in Africa Foundation director, Eddie Hatitye said eligible applicants are from Zimbabwe, Angola, Botswana, Eswatini, Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, and Zambia.

"The ACP-EU Culture Programme (Southern Africa) - Sound Connects Fund is an incredibly crucial initiative that will make a huge difference across the creative industries in southern Africa. We are calling on all eligible organisations to seize this opportunity and propose sustainable programmes that are aligned to the clear goals of this initiative," he said.

"The initiative will strategically seek to support projects and activities that facilitate the rapid production and distribution of high-quality goods within and outside the region, increase capacities among professionals, support rapid mobility and exchange among creators."

Hatitye added; "Enhance access to new markets, develop visual literacy (especially among underrepresented groups), promote advocacy aimed at protecting the interests of creators and support the existence of sustainable financing structures.

"From 2021 to 2024, the fund will award grants worth ?2 850 000 and offer a robust capacity-building programme (to the value of ?570 000) to eligible creatives and cultural industry organisations in nine SADC countries, Angola, Botswana, Eswatini, Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, Zambia, and Zimbabwe."

The Goethe-institut Sub-Saharan Africa regional director, Klaus Krischok added that the funding comes handy when the livelihoods of creatives had been threatened by the Covid-19 pandemic.

"The Goethe-institut is proud to be a driving partner in this project, together with MIAF. Sound Connects aims to reach progressive cultural and creative initiatives across nine countries in Southern Africa. The joint initiative is more relevant than ever in times when arts and culture are under duress," said Krischok.
252
The Music In Africa Foundation (MIAF), in partnership with the Goethe-institut, has launched a 4 million [euro] funding programme geared towards supporting creatives in Southern Africa.

Operating under the banner; ACP-EU Culture Programme (Southern Africa)--Sound Connects Fund, the initiative is made possible with funding from the ACP-EU Culture Programme, a project implemented by the Secretariat of the African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) Group of States and funded by the European Union (EU). The programme is co-funded by the Goethe-institut.

The Sound Connects Fund is a multifaceted initiative aimed at accelerating development and increasing the capacity of the cultural and creative sectors in Southern Africa. From 2021 to 2024, the fund will award grants worth 2 850 000 [euro] and offer a robust capacity-building programme (to the value of 570 000 [euro]) to eligible creative and cultural industry organisations in nine SADC countries; Angola, Botswana, eSwatini, Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, Zambia, and Zimbabwe.

The Sound Connect Fund is implemented by the MIAF in partnership with Goethe- Institut South Africa. The Siemens Stiftung, a founding partner of the MIAF, is also a partner of the fund.

"The ACP-EU Culture Programme (Southern Africa)--Sound Connects Fund is an incredibly crucial initiative that will make a huge difference across the creative industries in Southern Africa. We are calling on all eligible organisations to seize this opportunity and propose sustainable programmes that are aligned to the clear goals of this initiative," says Eddie Hatitye, director of the MIAF.

"The Goethe-institut is proud to be a driving partner in this project, together with MIAF", says Klaus Krischok, Regional Director of the Goethe-instituts in Sub- Saharan Africa. "Sound Connects aims to reach progressive cultural and creative initiatives across nine countries in Southern Africa. The joint initiative is more relevant than ever in times when arts and culture are under duress."

Multiple disciplines and key focus areas

Using the theme of sound as a strong connecting factor across creative industries in the region, the fund will support multiple disciplines including, but not limited to, performing arts, animation, film, gaming, photography, videography and visual arts sectors.

The initiative will strategically seek to support projects and activities that; facilitate the rapid production and distribution of high-quality goods within and outside the region; increase capacities among professionals; support rapid mobility and exchange among creators; enhance access to new markets; develop visual literacy (especially among underrepresented groups); promote advocacy aimed at protecting the interests of creators and support the existence of sustainable financing structures.

At least 35 grants will be awarded between 2021 and 2024. The grants will range between 35 000 [euro] and 180 000 [euro].

Eligible organisations include arts organisations, education institutions, associations, industry bodies, hubs and incubators, media houses, civil society and other relevant registered entities.

The first call for grant applications opened on 17 June 2021 and will close at midnight on Sunday 25 July 2021. The second and third calls for grant applications are scheduled for 2022. 
253

The Goethe-institut Namibia supported by the Museums Association of Namibia (MAN) recently held a five-day workshop for officials from across Namibia to share knowledge on marketing a museum using social media.

The first of the two-part training under the Museums Outreach Programme (MOP) also focused on the general management of a museum.

The MOP stems from past cooperation between the Goethe-institut and the University of Namibia on the paradigm shift in museology across post-colonial Africa with emphasis on the importance of community engagement in the operations of a museum as an institution of heritage management and conservation.

MAN's museums development officer Tuuda Haitula in a media statement on Wednesday said they designed the workshop to be interactive and responsive to the needs of the museums.

'Participants were able to give their input and understood the importance of cultural heritage and why it needs to be safeguarded, as well as how they are contributing towards that,' he said.

Haitula noted that the idea of a local conservation kit was well received and participants look forward to having their objects and stories travel to different parts of Namibia.

'The conservation kit will be produced for any person in communities to learn and function as a custodian of objects, while schools are to receive teaching kits to empower the youth at an early stage,' he said.

The statement further said Goethe-institut Namibia Director Dennis Schroeder noted that participants in the MOP have the opportunity to document traditional forms of conservation and thus value the indigenous knowledge systems that exist in Namibia, adding that cultural heritages provide individuals and societies with a sense of belonging.

'We feel grateful and privileged to support local living museums in their task to become sustainable and vital expressions of cultural legacy as well as a living cultural practice,' he said.

Officials who attended the training included representatives of the Ju/'Hoansi-San Living Museum, the OvaHimba Living Museum and the Damara Living Museum.
254
Foremost arts and culture journalist, Jahman Anikulapo, has been appointed Director of the Board of Newstide Publications Limited, as well as Editorial Board member of Prime Business, an online business newspaper title by Newstide.

Anikulapo in an exclusive interview with Prime Business expressed satisfaction with the appointment. He said he has confidence in the composition of the Board of Newstide Publications Limited, the Editorial Board of Prime Business, as well as the Publisher/Editor-in-Chief of Prime Business, Dr. Marcel Mbamalu.

He described Mbamalu as "efficient, competent, a scholar and an ethically sound journalist."

"I feel confident in the future of Prime Business as a leading online business newspaper because of the calibre of people that make up the Board of Newstide Publications Limited, the Editorial Board of Prime Business, and the editorial team", Anikulapo said.

With decades of experience in communications, Mr. Anikulapo is a perfect fit for his new roles. He was Art and Culture journalist for over three decades, writing mostly on performing arts, visual arts, literature and cultural affairs. He later became the Art and Media Editor for The Guardian (Daily) between 1993 and 2003, and Editor of The Guardian on Sunday and GuardianLife Magazine from March 16, 2003 to January 15, 2013.

A trained professional in theatre performance, production, and management, Mr. Anikulapo studied Theatre Arts at the University of Ibadan, specialising in Directing, Dramatic Theories, and Theatre Criticisms. Strongly influenced in culture advocacy, art criticism, and journalism by Benson Tomoloju, Mr. Anikulapo was an Actor, Assistant Director, and Assistant Stage / Production Manager with the Ajo Productions and Ajo Festival of Plays 1986, led by Fred Agbeyegbe between 1983 and 1986.

Between 1995 and 2002, he was Actor, Assistant Director, and Production Manager for the AFRIKA PROJEKT, an inter-cultural dialogue between Nigeria and Germany through theatre, and which toured several cities in both countries in 1996, 1998, and 2000.

He was Assistant Director/Producer of ASKARI, the International Committee for the Red Cross/Nigeria Red Cross Society 'Vote for Tolerance' that toured 22 states of Nigeria, led by Tomoloju. Mr. Anikulapo's rich profile also includes touring Germany and Mexico at different times with the National Troupe of Nigeria as an actor and dancer.

He is Executive Program Director of Culture Advocates Caucus, the content production and advocacy arm of Culture Advocates Consult (CAC), with a focus on programme designs, management, administration, and execution; arts and cultural advocacy and communication. The CAC has been involved in cultural communication in general, handling projects for both private organisations and the government, and collaborating with international agencies like the Goethe-institut, Alliance Francaise, British Council and American Consulate.

Newstide is set to unveil Prime Business on the 22nd of June, 2021, by 2pm at a widely publicised virtual launch to be moderated by Mr. Anikulapo. Board Chairman of Newstide, Dr. Bongo Adi will be speaking on the theme "Debt Burden and Quest for Economic Recovery". Other panelists are Prof. Pat Utomi, Eloine Barry and Ambassador Eloho Otobo.
255
The Goethe Stage is back and upcoming filmmakers have been invited to submit their scripts of short films set in Windhoek before 25 June 2021.

Goethe Stage 2021 will assist in the making of the short film and connect beneficiaries with persons already established in the industry for knowledge transfer. Goethe Stage 2021 is supported by the Namibia Film Commission (NFC).

"The NFC, as the custodian of film development in the country, is pleased to once again partner with Goethe Stage to the tune of N$150,000. The main objective of the collaboration is to ensure skills transfer, talent development and to keep the hard hit industry active despite the on-going covid-19 pandemic," said NFC Senior Media Officer, Nicola Muranda.

She said the commission takes pride in supporting creative projects that are geared towards skills development in youth.

"We are thus excited for the young aspiring filmmakers and film enthusiast that stand to benefit from this project," she added.

Goethe Stage in 2020 supported the production of three short films by local creatives. 'The Game' by Jenny Kandenge, 'Mukumo' by Namafu Amutse and 'Sacred Places' by Lloyd Winini were produced from late 2019 and premiered in October 2020. 'Sacred Places' was selected for the First Time Filmmaker Sessions and for Canada's Horror Lust Film Festival.

"Goethe Stage 2021 has decided to continue with short films because after the success of Goethe Stage 2020 and the production of 3 short films, some of which have received international recognition, the genre has gained more traction in Namibia," said Goethe-institut Namibia Cultural Programmes, Michelle Namases.

Managing the project again this year and functioning as the producer of all films, Senga Brockerhoff from Pegasus Productions said she is looking forward to this year's delivery. "This is a fantastic opportunity for newbies as well as those wishing to practice their craft. I am excited about this second round to apply lessons learnt last year through the production process and produce 3 higher-end short films," she said.

Established in the Namibian filmmaking industry, David Ndjavera; Krischka Stoffels; and Tim Huebschle, are the selection committee and advisors on Goethe Stage 2021.

Apart from being set in Windhoek, they will look for a comprehensible script and plausible story that can be materialized in less than six months. Applicants must with their application form submit a script of no more than 20 pages, a synopsis, list of characters, the director's curriculum vitae or biography and a director's vision statement. Writers may apply with separate director.

Goethe Stage has since 2017 supported and worked with numerous creatives in Namibia for their ideas to materialise and become part of the national discourse on Namibia's cultural development.
256
The Goethe Stage is back and upcoming filmmakers have been invited to submit their scripts of short films set in Windhoek before 25 June 2021.

Goethe Stage 2021 will assist in the making of the short film and connect beneficiaries with persons already established in the industry for knowledge transfer. Goethe Stage 2021 is supported by the Namibia Film Commission (NFC).

"The NFC, as the custodian of film development in the country, is pleased to once again partner with Goethe Stage to the tune of N$150,000. The main objective of the collaboration is to ensure skills transfer, talent development and to keep the hard hit industry active despite the on-going covid-19 pandemic," said NFC Senior Media Officer, Nicola Muranda.

She said the commission takes pride in supporting creative projects that are geared towards skills development in youth.

"We are thus excited for the young aspiring filmmakers and film enthusiast that stand to benefit from this project," she added.

Goethe Stage in 2020 supported the production of three short films by local creatives. 'The Game' by Jenny Kandenge, 'Mukumo' by Namafu Amutse and 'Sacred Places' by Lloyd Winini were produced from late 2019 and premiered in October 2020. 'Sacred Places' was selected for the First Time Filmmaker Sessions and for Canada's Horror Lust Film Festival.

"Goethe Stage 2021 has decided to continue with short films because after the success of Goethe Stage 2020 and the production of 3 short films, some of which have received international recognition, the genre has gained more traction in Namibia," said Goethe-institut Namibia Cultural Programmes, Michelle Namases.

Managing the project again this year and functioning as the producer of all films, Senga Brockerhoff from Pegasus Productions said she is looking forward to this year's delivery. "This is a fantastic opportunity for newbies as well as those wishing to practice their craft. I am excited about this second round to apply lessons learnt last year through the production process and produce 3 higher-end short films," she said.

Established in the Namibian filmmaking industry, David Ndjavera; Krischka Stoffels; and Tim Huebschle, are the selection committee and advisors on Goethe Stage 2021.

Apart from being set in Windhoek, they will look for a comprehensible script and plausible story that can be materialized in less than six months. Applicants must with their application form submit a script of no more than 20 pages, a synopsis, list of characters, the director's curriculum vitae or biography and a director's vision statement. Writers may apply with separate director.

Goethe Stage has since 2017 supported and worked with numerous creatives in Namibia for their ideas to materialise and become part of the national discourse on Namibia's cultural development.
257
 Framework contract for creative services for the Goethe-institut e. V. Headquarters

The Goethe-institut develops various communication materials, concepts and campaigns for the field of language teaching, as well as for its cultural and information activities in cooperation with service providers, namely:

- On- / offline creative services for advertising / commercial and for internal and external communication purposes. (Lot 1)

- On- / offline graphic services for communication with an editorial focus in the context of public relations. (Lot 2)

- On- / offline graphic services to support the learning process in German learning offers (learning graphics) as well as event-related, target group-appropriate infographics (including for presentations). Furthermore learning files to download to support the learning process.

(The 3, The 4)

The contract is divided into a total of 4 lots:

- Lot 1: advice, conception, creation and adaptation of advertising material,

- Lot 2: design and production of online / offline publications with.

Editorial focus

- Lot 3: conception and creation of learning graphics to support the learning process as well as infographics for presentation purposes

(Use on- and offline),

- Lot 4: creation of learning files for download by learners and teachers worldwide to support the learning process.

Major organization : Goethe-institut E. V. ZENTRALE

Address : Oskar-Von-Miller-Ring 18.
258
Contract notice: Creation and operation of a complete system (eBank) for worldwide electronic payment processing and connection of banks worldwide to the central SAP-FI system of the Goethe-institut

Major organization : Goethe-institut E.V. ZENTRALE

Address : Oskar-Von-Miller-Ring 18

Town: Mnchen.
259
The Goethe-institut Brussels (hereinafter AG for clients) assigns the reception service in the office building of the Goethe-institut Brussels.

Major organization : Goethe-institut E. V. ZENTRALE

Address : Oskar-Von-Miller-Ring 18

Town: Mnchen

Postal Code: 80333

Country :Germany
260
The work within the framework of the historical and cultural project "Timekeepers: online travels through the castles of Western Podillya" has been successfully completed. The project was made possible by a grant and an agreement signed between the German Cultural Center Goethe-institut at the Embassy of the Federal Republic of Germany in Ukraine and the Khmelnytsky Regional Center for Tourism and Local History of students with the financial support of the House of Europe. The direct organizer of the project is Dmytro Vashchuk, Candidate of Historical Sciences, head of the Khmelnytsky Regional Center for Tourism and Local History of Student Youth.

As a result of the project, a series of excursions to the castles of Western Podillya was created: Little key of the great road: Zhvanets, Kudryntsi, Chornokozyntsi, Fortress above Zbruch: Skala-Podilska, Castrum Rubrum: Chervonohrad, Western outpost of Gediminovych: Terebovlia and Chortkiv Embodied in 4 video tutorials.

The project involved several stages: studying the history of castles, processing interesting documents, writing plans of abstracts and scripts, video recording on objects in the format of video lessons, interviews with famous historians and archaeologists who specialize in medieval history, urban archeology and monuments. security activities, and direct creation of videos.

The selected castles are not such popular historical and local lore sites as Kamianets-Podilskyi or Khotyn, and the transport connection with them is much better. In addition, most of them (with the exception of Terebovlia) do not have the possibility of professional excursions, not to mention the involvement of famous scientists. It is extremely important that this media product is relevant not only during the pandemic, when video tours are an integral part of online learning, but will also be useful to all subjects and objects of the educational process in the field of historical local lore and memory. ethnography and microhistory. After all, now an interesting virtual journey can be made at any convenient time from anywhere.

"The little key to the great way: Zhvanets, Kudryntsi, Chornokozyntsi"

The history of Zhvanetsky Castle is known exactly from 1431, the lands of which were received by the vassal Vladislav Jagail - Svichka This fortification was the first frontier on the approaches to Kamianets-Podilskyi.

But Kudrynets Castle is shrouded in interesting legends. Local guards claim that the enemy walled up the strongest defenders of the fortress in the castle walls. Kudryntsi has not been mentioned in historical sources for a long time, and the first mention of them dates back to the end of the 15th century. In 1518 this settlement received city rights and began to develop actively.

The castle in Chornokozyntsi played one of the most important roles in the system of defensive borders of western Podillya. It had a favorable geographical location: on the one hand - the river Zbruch flowed, and on the other - the protection was deep ravines. Some historians claim that the castle in Chornokozyntsi was built by the Koriatovych brothers.

"Fortress over Zbruch: Podilska Rock"

Skala-Podilska is considered to be the western gate of Podillya, as it has blocked the western borders of the region since ancient times. On the site of a modern castle in the XII-XIII centuries. there was a settlement, which was part of the Galicia-Volyn principality. After significant destruction, the castle was rebuilt in the second half of the sixteenth century. using the latest Western European technologies. To date, only one tower, called the powder tower, and the castle walls have survived.

"Castrum Rubrum: Chervonogorod"

Chervonohrad is a real ghost town, as it cannot be found on any map of Ukraine. Archaeological finds suggest that the territory of the palace complex was inhabited during the Trypillia culture. It is believed that Krasnograd Castle in the early seventeenth century. built by Nikolai Danilovich.

"Western Gediminovych Outpost: Terebovlia and Chortkiv"

The uniqueness of Terebovlia is manifested in its geographical location, which led to the construction of a large defensive castle here. The first castle was built by Prince Vasylk in the XI century, the defensive towers were located on the east and west sides. In 1366 work began on its development and strengthening.

As for Chortkiv, archeological excavations prove that people settled here in the Middle Paleolithic. In the period of Rus-Ukraine in this area there are four settlements and a necropolis of the XII-XIII centuries. In 1522 the city received the Magdeburg right and was named Chortkiv.
261
Ambassadors agree to set up the European Union National Institutes for Culture (EUNIC) "cluster"

Updated 7 sec ago Lama Alhamawi June 11, 2021 01:03 Follow @arabnews

RIYADH: European countries have set up a cultural network in Saudi Arabia to strengthen cultural ties between the Kingdom and the EU.

A charter was signed by ambassadors on Thursday at the Austrian embassy in Riyadh to set up the European Union National Institutes for Culture (EUNIC) "cluster."

The members include the embassies of Austria, France, Spain, Italy and Czech Republic along with the Goethe-institut.

The charter aims to strengthen dialogue between the nations and Saudi Arabia leading to increased cultural activity and diverse opportunities in the Kingdom in fields such as fashion, film, music, architecture and design, and visual arts projects.

They hope to create museums, workshops, and cultural events and open the door to local artists and professionals to collaborate with experts from Europe.

"What we would like to do is implement projects together with Saudi powered institutions interested in working with us but we also stand ready to provide capacity building and we can bring in experts," Wolfgang Kutschera, deputy head of mission at the Austrian embassy in Riyadh said. The EU ambassador to the Kingdom Patrick Simonnet gave a speech at the ceremony supporting the partnership and detailed the opportunities it will create.

Sulaf Al-Jindan, Director of the International Multilateral Institutions Department at the Ministry of Culture also attended the signing.

EUNIC already has two projects in Saudi Arabia underway. An EU film festival will take place in November and an architectural event on solutions for sustainable living in Riyadh will take place the same month.

EUNIC has 125 clusters in more than 90 countries that aim to create cultural collaboration between European countries and the rest of the world.
262
The European Union (EU) in Bangladesh launched the very first film festival in Bangladesh on Wednesday titled "Bangladesh European Union Film Festival (BEUFF)", in partnership with all European Union Member States Embassies in Dhaka: Germany, France, Sweden, Denmark, Netherlands, Italy, Spain, as well as the Goethe-institut Bangladesh and the Alliance Francaise de Dhaka.

Making the occasion of the 50 years' celebration of Bangladesh's independence and the friendship between the EU and Bangladesh, the maiden edition of BEUFF is showcasing a total of 21 films and will virtually run till June 30.

The festival is featuring 7 Bangladeshi films from young aspiring filmmakers, 7 EU feature films, and 7 international short films on climate change. All the films will be screened on the online platform Festival Scope and available free of cost to all audiences residing in Bangladesh.

Furthermore, all seven European movies will be subtitled in Bangla to eliminate the barriers of languages, according to the European Union (EU).

It also says that the festival will unfold a new chapter in the EU's cultural exchange with Bangladesh and further shed light on vital issues such as education and skill development, climate change adaptation, food and nutrition security, good governance, safe migration and sustainable reintegration of refugees, empowerment of women and girls: EU's priorities for development cooperation in Bangladesh.

A dedicated website (www.beuff.org) was launched at 12 am on June 9th, allowing the audiences access to all films and other information related to the festival.

The festival's side events will also include masterclasses, questions/answer sessions with directors, discussions on gender representations in cinema, having a strong focus on women's issues and climate change.

The implementing partners of BEUFF are Particip GmbH, RedOrange Media and Communications and Goopy Bagha Productions Limited.
263
Contract notice:New building for the Goethe-institut Dakar, Senegal - general planning service

Major organization : Goethe-institut E. V. ZENTRALE

Address : Oskar-Von-Miller-Ring 18

Town: Mnchen

Postal Code: 80333

Country :Germany
264
Announcement: Implementation of the consent management platform for the website

Lowest offer: 289 000.00 EUR / Highest offer: 289 000.00 EUR taken into consideration

Contractor name : USERCENTRICS GMBH

Contractor address : Mnchen

Implementing agency : Official name: Goethe-institut e. V. Zentrale

Postal address: Oskar-von-Miller-Ring 18

Town: Mnchen.
The Goethe-institut Namibia will host the Poetry Session #3 on 10 June at 19:00 at their premises. The event open to the public will run under the theme: 'A Dedication to Thee', featuring guest Leana Emily Hengari.

Entrance and participation is free and seats are limited due to social distancing regulations and this is not a session of eulogies but instead encourages poets to produce and deliver works in dedication of a living person.

Leana is a humanitarian who has the community at heart, she is an author, speaker, poet, mentor and the Gender Department Administrative Officer at Lifeline\ChildLine Namibia. Her poems and articles focus on different social issues.
265
Claudia Keyser, Vice President of Business Development, Frankfurt International Book Fair, said that Germany's participation as the Guest of Honour in the Abu Dhabi International Book Fair (ADIBF) for two consecutive editions underscores the rich cultural heritage of German culture.

In her statement to the Emirates News Agency (WAM), Keyser pointed out that the 2021 German pavilion comprises over 15 German publishing houses, showcasing over 350 titles, adding that it also features a digital publishing programme that includes publishing houses and publications across culture, science and literature.

ermany's participation in the coming edition of ADIBF as a guest of honour will involve a larger pavilion featuring numerous German publishing houses, she added, noting that the success of ADIBF's 30th edition despite COVID-19 complications highlights the UAE's international position.

ermany's Goethe-institut is responsible for promoting German culture and encouraging intercultural dialogue and collaboration between the UAE and Germany, she stated, pointing out that the life story of the late German historian Goethe will be showcased at their ADIBF pavilion.

She explained that Germany's participation in ADIBF aims to enrich intercultural dialogue between German and Arab publishers.

This year, Germany presented a programme full of cultural events and seminars, and ADIBF is organising two cultural exhibitions, in cooperation with the Goethe-institut and the German Embassy in Abu Dhabi. The first, entitled "Arab-German Tales", highlights the history of cultural exchange between the two countries, showcases Arab and German content, and features several educational and heritage-related workshops.

The second exhibition, entitled "From Cinderella to Sindbad: German and Arab Timeless Tales", covers tales from ancient Egyptian papyri to the tales of the Brothers Grimm, from the Arabian Nights to contemporary books and comics. The two exhibitions will run until 20th September at the Cultural Foundation in Abu Dhabi.

Moreover, the Abu Dhabi Arabic Language Centre will be screening a number of German films at Manarat Al Saadiyat from 27th to 29th May, 2021.
266
Within the framework of the two exhibitions currently on at KunstRaumGoethe -- Interlaced -- Verflochten zwischen Schichten by Dagmar Glausnitzer-Smith and Marion Jungeblut and acrobat above the dome by photographer Stelios Kallinikou -- Goethe-institut Cyprus is organising a talk with the three participating artists on Monday.

The talk, which will be moderated by Myrto Aristidou, will elaborate on the exhibited artworks and address how the artists negotiate (with) nature through internal and intuitive processes. In the context of the pandemic, solitude, introspection and a lonely gaze towards the world can be identified in the artworks, whether these were created before or during the pandemic. The exhibitions are the second edition of KunstRaumGoethe and though they present different art genres, visuals and themes they intersect with certain concepts and ideas. Through diverse means, the exhibited pieces explore the body's connection to the earth. It is these ideologies and methods that the talk will explore.

The event is free to attend and will take place in accordance with the health and safety measures. Due to a limited number of seats, those interested in attending should reserve a place in advance.

Artist talk at KunstRaumGoethe

Discussion with artists Dagmar Glausnitzer-Smith, Marion Jungeblut and Stelios Kallinikou. Moderated by Myrto Aristidou. May 24. Goethe-institut Cyprus, Nicosia. 7pm. Free. RSVP at kultur-nikosia@goethe.de
267
Contract notice: Maintenance, carpet and glass cleaning for the Goethe-institut Madrid

The subject of the tender is the maintenance, carpet and glass cleaning service for the Goethe-institut Madrid, divided into the two lots.

Lot 1: maintenance cleaning including carpet cleaning

The 2: Glasreinigung.

Major organization : Goethe-institut E. V. ZENTRALE

Address : Oskar-Von-Miller-Ring 18

Town: Mnchen
268
Despite the many limitations brought about by the pandemic, the Film Development Council of the Philippines (FDCP) continues to open doors for local filmmakers to shine and fulfill their dreams of being film creators.

The call for filmmakers who wish to create modern silent films have been sounded, and the 15th year of the International Silent Film Festival Manila certainly looks more than promising with the establishment of the Mit Out Sound (MOS): International Silent Film Lab 2021.

The goal is to encourage the production of silent films and discover new talents who will be mentored by filmmakers from all over the globe on story development, editing, and other creative and technical elements of silent filmmaking.

FDCP chairman Liza Dino is delighted about the many possibilities of the silent film festival. 'This year, formidable agencies like the Philippine Italian Association, Embassy of France in Manila, Goethe-institut Philippinen, Instituto Cervantes de Manila, The Japan Foundation are all throwing their support to the FDCP for this undertaking, which I am so grateful for. The chosen finalists will each be awarded a production grant amounting to P50,000 to come up with their silent short films.'

She added, 'Philippine cinema has lost most of our early silent films. This very sad realization has inspired the creation of the first MOS Film Lab to revive the interest in silent filmmaking, and enhance the expertise of Filipino filmmakers in creating unique and quality films.'

SINE KABATAAN FINALISTS ANNOUNCED

Ten young filmmakers have been announced as finalists for the fourth edition of the Sine Kabataan Short Film Competition, each receiving a P100,00 grant to be used in the production of their respective entries. From a pool of over 200 submissions, 18 were shortlisted before the top 10 were chosen by a selection committee composed of producer Alemberg Ang, filmmaker JP Habac and FDCP executive director Ria Anne Rubia. 'We are truly proud that Sine Kabataan is able to continue providing financial grants to these very young filmmakers all over the country who never fail to surprise us with how creative they are in tackling brave themes like teenage pregnancy, social divide, LGBT, mental health, and the daily struggles of the Filipino,' Dino shared.

The 10 official finalists of the Sine Kabataan Short Film Competition are:

'Abot Kamay Ang Langit' by Brian Spencer B. Reyes. After waking up in an empty city, two street kids have all the freedom to do whatever they want.

'Ang Bunga sa Tiyan ni Adam' by Ella Louise B. Salomon. A teenage boy tells his girlfriend he is pregnant after taking a pregnancy test.

'Jombi' by Angela Francesca V. Andres. A bullied gloomy girl finds out her friend is a zombie.

'Mga Ulap Tayong Nagiging Ulan' by Demetrio E. Celestino III. An anthropomorphic cloud named Ulap shares how it achieves small wins in this natural cycle of life, one that dwells on the commonality that suggests 'mga ulap tayong nagiging ulan.'

'Reconnected' by Judd Bradley Avelino. After a total blackout ruins his daily routine, a 20-year-old man goes out to experience the world with only physical connection.

'Love in the Ungodly Hour' by Bradley Jason Pantajo. As two young men reconnect with each other, questions about the past begin to rise.

'Si Jet at ang Dark Lord ng Dol Gurskul' by Terence Giourdan Gonzalves. A young boy cuts class to plot his revenge with his imaginary friends against Dark Lord Marcoth.

'Ang Alamat ng Prinsipe at Mandirigma' by Jacob Mikhail U. Collado. After being scolded by his father for a leaked sex tape online, his younger brother tells him a story in a makeshift blanket fortress.

'Ang Balay ni Conrad' by Ardinian Jaq Sanque. A homeless boy trying to build himself a house on the side of the street rescues a boy whose life is the exact opposite of his.

'Jeremy Supot' by James Allen Fajardo. Harassed by school bullies for being uncut, a teenage boy decides to sell his cellphone to afford circumcision.
269
Contract award notice:Framework agreement for the delivery of mobile air purification devices

Total value of the contract/lot: 470 000.00 EUR

Contractor name : ROTERS GMBH

Contractor address : Tnisvorst

Implementing agency : Official name: Goethe-institut e.V. - Zentrale

Postal address: Oskar-von-Miller-Ring 18

Town: Mnchen.
270
The Goethe-lnstitut Namibia will be offering coding classes as from 17 to 21 May, from 15:00 to 16:30 at the cost of N$750. "

This offer is for girls and boys between the ages of 6 to 10 and it is part of the Dash Wonder Worship holiday course.

The Institui said the children will be taught in a playful way and will learn the first steps of programming and coding in order to solve problems of the future with their 'Dash' robots.

According to the centre a 'Dash' robot responds to voice commands or any of their five free downloadable apps to sing, draw and move around

"The robots help children learn the basics of robotics and coding at home or in classroom setting," they added.
271
After a series of lockdowns, KunstRaumGoethe, Goethe-institut Cyprus' art space, is now hosting its second edition to welcome artists, art lovers and guests to two new exhibitions.

The exhibitions Interlaced -- Verflochten zwischen Schichten by German artists Dagmar Glausnitzer-Smith and Marion Jungeblut and Acrobat Above the Dome by Cypriot photographer Stelios Kallinikou explore the body's connection to the earth and will run until June 9.

The works in the exhibition Interlaced are brought into a context that juxtaposes the familiar, the abstract and the foreign. Words and reflective surfaces create the possibility of other realities, layers, and insights. Due to its abstraction, the artwork arouses different associations in the viewer's mind on different levels of cognitive and visual perception.

Marion, with a background in sculpting, and Dagmar in performance art among other art forms, have collaborated in the past and have taken their contribution to this exhibition 'Interlaced' as an experiment for future work together. Though their work is of different formats, materials and approaches, the two German artists seek that gap where their art, or understanding of art, meets. In other words, where it intersects, relating to the title of their exhibition.

Presented in the same space is Kallinikou's exhibition, a series of photographs that look more like abstract images -- sometimes as paintings, others as illustrations -- than classical photographs. There's no clear separation between the two exhibitions other than Stelios' work being presented on the stage and the room right next to it. It is this non-existent separation between the exhibitions that creates an interesting element on their relationship, even though at first glance it seems that they have nothing in common.

Kallinikou presents sequences of images that flow into nested dialogues as he explores the connection between the narrative boundaries of photography and consciousness. His images have a mythological and archaeological pre-human feel, connecting something primordial to the present by illustrating the body's connection to the earth. The worlds are constructed at an introspective, meditative pace, and then function as speculative scenarios through which the intersections between territorial and ideological concepts related to landscape -- such as space/place and time/history-are explored.

A similar meditative approach is present in Dagmar's work too, although it is a completely different art form. Marion also focuses on reflection and introspection, much like the other two artists, thus by looking at the three artists' understanding of their art practices and processes, they even surprise themselves in finding similarities in their concepts. To a visiting eye, these won't be obvious most likely yet the artists encourage viewers to create their own narratives and reflections within their work, finding the acrobat interlaced above the dome.

Interlaced -- Verflochten zwischen Schichten and Acrobat Above the Dome

Exhibition by German artists Dagmar Glausnitzer-Smith and Marion Jungeblut and another exhibition by Cypriot photographer Stelios Kallinikou. May 13-June 9. Goethe-institut Cyprus, Nicosia. 
272
Framework agreement on annual audit according to HGB for the financial years 2021-2024 of the Goethe-institut ev

Major organization : Goethe-institut E.V. ZENTRALE

Address : Postal Address: Oskar-Von-Miller-Ring 18

Town: Mnchen.
273
The SAWA Virtual Series, a unique program organised by Sharjah Museums Authority (SMA) to map out museological terms in three languages, has concluded the first phase of its glossary project that was launched in February this year.

The online program is part of the SAWA Museum Academy and was held in collaboration with the Berlin State Musuema, the University of Applied Sciences Berlin (HTW), Staatliche Museen zu Berlin, and the Goethe-institut Gulf Region.

Covering three languages, English, Arabic and German, the 'Glossary Project' is aimed at discussing museological terms in today's world and conclude with publishing the first issue of a multicultural terminology online publication.

The nine-week program saw the participation of 20 SAWA Museum Academy Alumni of young museum professionals from the past five years.

Participants from the MENA region including UAE, Egypt, Oman, Jordan and Palestine and from Germany, paired up and tackled museological terms and their definitions based on their use and value within individual and local museological practices.

mong the topics discussed during their virtual lectures were collecting and participation; audience and education; curation and narration; creative writing and tangible and intangible heritage.

With a presentation focused on leadership in museums, Director-General of SMA, Manal Ataya, contributed to the program with a talk.

Her participation highlighted issues related to decision making, values, potential differences between Arab and Western methodology, multi-vocality and the challenges museums face today.

hybrid new format between written essays and audio or video clips, the publication will be issued next September and will include articles and essays about all the researched terminologies.

erman Ambassador to the UAE, Ernst Peter Fischer, and Fareed Majari, Director of the Goethe-institut Golf Region, took part in the program listening to the experiences of participating SAWA Museum Academy Alumni.

Other virtual series of SAWA Academy will be held in the future under different relevant themes.

Since it was launched five years ago, SAWA Academy has graduated 80 participants from the MENA region and Germany.
274
 The Goethe-institut has launched the joint initiative "Horizons: Opportunities for the Future", that connects young academics from the Middle East with German companies for an online job shadowing between September and November 2021.

The project is led by the Goethe-institut in cooperation with the German Federal Foreign Office, the DIHK and the BDI.

The project enables special encounters between experienced German companies and highly qualified professionals from the Middle East this year in a virtual way due to the pandemic, said a statement from the Goethe-institut .

"A great opportunity for qualified young professionals to develop their skills linguistically and culturally and to make themselves familiar with the German business culture at the same time," Director of the Goethe-institut Norbert Spitz said in the statement..

The participating companies offer young professionals from Iran, Iraq, Jordan or Lebanon an insight into the working methods and cooperation of a German company within the framework of an online job shadowing. At the same time, they have the opportunity to explore the potential of a possible target market and exchange experiences with a specialist in their sector.

Further information and the registration form for companies and professionals can be found on the website of the Goethe-institut.
275
project support for the introduction of microsoft 365 at the Goethe-institut e. v.

In this project, microsoft 365 is to be used worldwide on the basis of user needs and requirements in accordance with the above-mentioned roadmap planning of the Goethe-institut e. v. to be introduced. the contractor must take into account the results of the ongoing pandemic-related deployment of teams and onedrive. we are looking for project support (also with technical expertise) to support the client~s project management team in an advisory capacity.

This contract is divided into lots: no

Time limit for receipt of tenders or requests to participate: date: 14/05/2021 local time: 12:00

Other activity: bildung und kultur

Major organization : Goethe-institut E. V. ZENTRALE

Address : Postal Address: Oskar-Von-Miller-Ring 18

Town: Mnchen
276
Contract award notice: Announcement: 22 / editorial services (germany-munich: Public relations services)

Lowest offer: 6 660.00 EUR / Highest offer: 12 403.00 EUR taken into consideration

Contractor name : 3 PC BERLIN

Contractor address : Berlin

Implementing agency : Official name: Goethe-institut e. V. Zentrale

Postal address: Oskar-von-Miller-Ring 18

Town: Mnchen
277
Entertainment Report : Sultana's Dream, a platform that promotes filmmaking opportunities to women, have chosen 16 talented filmmakers who will get the chance to go through a workshop to learn the art of filmmaking. The talented filmmakers will have to go through a month-long workshop training. Finally, three brilliant filmmakers will be selected to direct the short film Breaking the Silence. The top 16 names were announced recently at a programme and the show was hosted by noted actress Novera Rahman. Special guests at the programme were film critic and journalist Sadia Khaled Riti and Goethe-institut of Bangladesh Director Kristen Hackenbrook. Filmmaker Rubaiyat Hossain was also present at the programm exchanging views with the participants. The 16 lucky winners are: Laboni Ashraf, Atashi Kormokar, Fatiha Tayra, Zahara Najifa Nova, Nusrat Jahan Ishat, Farah Jolil, Afrida Mehazabein, Fariha Begum Raya, Fazana Noor, Neha Shamim, Fariya Manar, Monon Muntaka, Mahmuda Akhter Monisha, Prachita Ohona Alom, Tijaya Thomas and Mohammed Shihab.
278
The Goethe-institut Namibia will host, singer, songwriter and guitarist, Vaughn Ahrens, for the Night Under the Stars (NUTS) set for 9 April at 19:00. Tickets will cost N$20.

This will be his first solo performance on stage, under this project.

The performance will include songs from his sophomore album and his early career, while Ray Mup accompanies him on keys and bass.

One of his most recent accolades was creating the official soundtrack for the Namibian crime thriller, Lands of the Brave.

The seats for the show will be limited due to Covid-19 regulations and social distancing.

Refreshments will be available.
279
On the occasion of BEUYS100, the Goethe-institut Zypern announces a Call for Artists for Social Sculptures, a series of events including a workshop and exhibition at Goethe in April and September. Social Sculptures will unfold with a ten-day workshop facilitated by cultural practitioners and artists whose practices are inspired by and draw from Joseph Beuys' social-sculpture projects.

Beuys is widely regarded as one of the most important and influential artists of the second half of the 20th century. He was a German Fluxus, happening and performance artist as well as a painter, sculptor, installation artist, graphic artist, art theorist and pedagogue. His career was characterised by open public debates on a wide range of subjects including political, environmental, social and long-term cultural trends.

The workshop will run from April 19 to 29 and will focus on the concept of social sculpture, which Beuys developed in the early 1970s. The term is centred on the belief that art could include the entire process of living -- thoughts, actions, conversation, and objects -- and could be enacted collectively by a wide range of people.

Beyond the exploration of Beuys' actions, demonstrating his commitment to direct democracy, radical pedagogy and environmentalism, the workshop will also reflect on artists whose practices convey social and political ideals. Its aim is to reveal local cultural issues and sketch ways of reacting to and tackling them. Such themes respond to the urgency of recognising the status of the artist in Cyprus and the necessity of continually redefining the role of the artist in society.

The facilitators' seminars will recount these questions and expand through looking at the origins of performance art origin and Beuys' declaration that 'art equals capital'. The vulnerability of culture, the notion of female materials and tactility, and collaboration as a means for art-making will also be discussed in the workshop.

The workshop will involve various kinds of practical sessions, including elaboration processes in drawing, sound making, sculpting and acting, all with the aim of facilitating artists to extend their artistic practice. Both theory and practice will focus on the participants' practices, while their own references and experiences will inform the workshop.

Participation is free and each participant will receive a per diem allowance of é¼150 for the duration of the workshop. Artists interested in applying should send a short biography and an artist's statement of maximum of 200 words, images of their work, a link to their website or portfolio and a statement answering the question: how do you expect this workshop to benefit your practice? The above should be emailed in a single PDF file to kultur-nikosia@goethe.de by March 31 and candidates will be notified by April 2.
280
 The International Association of Francophone Mayors (AIMF) and the city of Bordeaux organised on March 22-23, an international symposium on the occasion of the 93rd meeting of its board on "Circular Economy in Cities," according to an AIMF press release.

The plenary session was held on March 23, under chairmanship of the Mayor of Paris and AIMF President Anne Hidalgo, Mayor of Tunis and AIMF Vice-President Souad Abderrahim (by VTC) and the Mayor of Bordeaux.

Two projects were presented by Tunisia on the occasion. They are two support programmes: Eco'Logic and MoodhaOkhra.

These eco-responsible projects are distinguished by their innovation in the sustainable design field.

These projects were presented during the preparatory works for the conference on the city in circular economy, organised in collaboration with the Maghreb cities network and the Arab Maghreb Union.

Arab Maghreb Union (UMA) Secretary-General Taieb Baccouche and civil society representatives from Mauritania, Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia and Libya took part in these workshops in support for the young participants.

Initiated by the association "Collectif Créatif," a group of cultural actors, the Eco'Logic project seeks to initiate a dialogue on sustainable design. This call targets designers and creative people (craftsmen, architects, artists, etc.) as well as students in creative disciplines, says a note of presentation of the two Tunisian projects, a copy of which was received by TAP.

Eco'Logic offers a space to showcase projects as well as models and prototypes. It is also an opportunity to network with institutional, professional and associative actors involved in environmental issues.

The proposed working axes are based on eco-responsible handicraft production and communication and awareness-raising on a more sustainable way of life.

MoodhaOkhra is the second programme selected for this meeting. Initiated by the Goethe-institut and Pontalent, this educational project around sustainable and responsible fashion in Tunisia gave birth in 100 days, to numerous eco-responsible and environmentally friendly projects.

MoodhaOkhra represents an alternative for the textile industry, considered one of the most polluting in the world.

The AIMF board validated the theme of the 2021 congress to be held in Kigali on July 19-21, which is "The Mayor and Civil Society."

It also agreed on the organisation of two important events requested by member cities: A conference on the circular economy and the city/forest relationship in the Congo Basin, to be held in Paris on October 21; and a high-level meeting of Francophone digital ministers, to be held in Namur on November 4-6.

Nearly 350 participants, mayors, city representatives and international partners from 40 countries in Africa, America, Asia and Europe, took part in the debates, either in person or by VTC.
281
Goethe-institut's Cinemaverse will on Wednesday 7 April, 19h00 screen the three short films that were produced in 2020 under the Goethe Stage project and supported by the Namibia Film Commission.

All films were made by local producers and have a local cast. The public screening with a free entrance at the Goethe-institut Namibia has a limited number of seats in accordance with the COVID regulations and includes popcorn.

Directors of the short films will be at the event for a Q&A session with the public. In no particular order, the films are: 'Sacred Places' by Lloyd Winini, a film about five friends who find themselves lost in the never-ending tunnels of the Chinhoyi caves before the situation is complicated by inexplicable events and their true colours begins to show.

'Mukumo' by Namafu Amutse follows a queer boy navigating bullying by peers and judgement from his father takes a stand and 'The Game' by Jenny Kandenge which follows Ndanki and Nico who find themselves locked in a room with two strangers and the only escape is playing the game.

Cinemaverse is a project by the Goethe-institut Namibia that hosts the screenings of arthouse films from Namibia and abroad. The goal is to expose the local films scene to the arthouse format and hopefully inspire local filmmakers.
282
The Ministry of Education and Science is grateful to its international partners for participating in the reform of general secondary education and is ready for further cooperation. This was stated by the Minister of Education and Science Serhiy Shkarlet during the dialogue platform "Education of Ukraine 2021: strategic goals in action", which took place , March 18, 2021.

"The Ministry of Education and Science is grateful to international partners for their support in the process of reforming general secondary education. Together we are working effectively to train teachers, create materials for teachers and students, promote online educational resources. For our part, we are ready to continue working together. to develop Ukrainian education, "the Minister said.

According to Zhanna Sevastyanova, British Language Project Manager for the British Council in Ukraine, since 2017 the Coordinating Committee for Support of Modern Foreign Language Teachers has been systematically supporting primary school reform, including postgraduate teacher training institutes and higher education institutions.

The Coordinating Committee consists of representatives of the Goethe-institut in Ukraine, the British Council and the French Institute in Ukraine under the chairmanship of the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine.

"The Coordinating Committee sees the support of primary school teachers, online education, professional development of teachers as strategic areas of cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Science. We will also be happy to support the introduction of mentoring and supervision in Ukrainian schools." Sevastyanova.

Oleg Odolsky, Head of Cambridge University Press, said that over the past 5 years, Cambridge University has supported NUS reform through a number of projects that develop teachers' professional qualities and competencies, teach the use of modern teaching materials and monitor student progress through international assessment standards.

"Cambridge University highly values ??Ukraine and the work carried out by the Ministry of Education and Science in promoting international language standards, which is why it was decided to continue supporting students in the 5th grade of pilot schools and providing funding for free pilot materials," said Oleg Odolsky.
283
The subject of the tender is the provision and operation of the global mpls network, which extends over 140 locations in over 100 countries. in addition, local internet connections in the individual countries are queried. as high-performance connections to the microsoft azure cloud, direct cloud connections from the mpls or from the data center are tendered.

This contract is divided into lots: no

Time limit for receipt of tenders or requests to participate: date: 12/04/2021 local time: 12:00

Other activity: bildung und kultur

Major organization : Goethe-institut E. V. ZENTRALE

Address : postal address: oskar-von-miller-ring 18

town: mnchen.
284
 Announcement: Support for mobile devices. Operation, Migration of the emm platform of the Goethe-institut (germany-munich: It services: Consulting, Software development, Internet and support)

Mobile device support. Operation, migration of the EMM platform of the Goethe-institut.

A detailed description of the required service can be found in Appendix A1 Performance Description .

Number of tenders received: 2

Total value of the contract/lot: 280 000.00 EUR

Contractor name : BFI BERATUNGSGESELLSCHAFT FR INFORMATIONSTECHNOLOGIE MBH HAMBURG

Contractor address : Town: Hamburg

NUTS code: DE600 Hamburg

Implementing agency : Goethe-institut e. V. Zentrale

Postal address: Oskar-von-Miller-Ring 18

Town: Mnchen.
285
Continuing the legacy of success, four students of DPS Bokaro, Akshara Roy Sharma, Anshuman Bharadwaj, Ayushman Dutta and Vaishnavi Kumari have cleared the scholarship examination to make their way to take part in the PASCH Youth Camp 2021.

The selected students will now be taking part in the camp which will be conducted from Germany between 3rd and 14th May, 2021 in the online mode. This camp is a part of the scholarship offered to those students who have excelled in German language studies at the global-level and all expenses pertaining to the camp are borne by Goethe-institut.

These students have qualified a challenging selection test to make their way to the Global platform. To recognize and acknowledge the efforts put in by the Department of German to train and enhance the German language skills of the students, Goethe-institut has also facilitated the school with i-Pads.

Principal, DPS Bokaro A. S. Gangwar congratulated the students and said that success is the result of the committed efforts put in by the students under the guidance of their teacher. "Such programmes are a great learning experience. They help students not only get an opportunity to learn the language but also forge their way of life by providing global exposure," he remarked.

Every year Goethe-institut organizes these camps for students from more than 1800 schools all over the globe which are a part of the PASCH network worldwide wherein students take part in many fun activities like tours to places of importance, quizzes, etc. However due to the pandemic, this year the youth camp will be held virtually.
286
The initiative seeks to support both individuals and collectives in their endeavour to reflect, critique, and suggest alternative futures and pathways of 'being in the world'

Goethe-institut Bangladesh, in partnership with Kalakendra, will organize an art exhibition featuring a range of multidisciplinary artworks presented by eleven awardees of the 'Futures Beyond the Self 2020' project, initiated by Goethe-institute Bangladesh. The Kalakendra curatorial team has curated this exhibition.

The KalaKendra gallery space to host the exhibition and to be open for visitors from 10th March to 8th April 2021, starting from 4 pm to 8 pm, every day.

The awardees are Priyanka Chowdhury (research), Arifur Rahman (short film), Karkhana Collective (music), Murshed Jahangir (visual art), Parsa Sanjana Sajid (research), Emran Sohel (visual art), Samsul Alam Helal (photography), Sumana Akter (visual art), Shahla Islam (short film), Tahia Farhin Haque (visual art) and Tehai Interdisciplinary Art Initiative (performance art).

The jury involved were visual artist and Trustee/ Founder of Britto Arts Trust, Tayeba Begum Lipi, Executive Director of Research Initiatives Bangladesh (RIB) Dr Meghna Guhathakurta, Chief Curator, Bengal Arts Programme, Bengal Foundation Tanzim Wahab and Artist, Curator, Kalakendra Wakilur Rahman, as well as two representatives from Goethe-institut Bangladesh Dr Kirsten Hackenbroch, Director and K Md Mahmud Hassan, Programme Coordinator.

The initiative seeks to provide a space for new ideas to flourish and for continued societal and collective engagement. It seeks to support both individuals and collectives in their endeavour to reflect, critique, and suggest alternative futures and pathways of 'being in the world'.

The Covid-19 pandemic has changed the environment of cultural engagements in the blink of an eye. The everyday of the cultural scene has moved online, and this move has both disconnected some initiatives and activities, while, at the same time connected others.

Under these circumstances, the Goethe-institute Bangladesh invited all Bangladeshi artists, art collectives, cultural activists, and cultural organizations in late September to apply for funding under the initiative 'Futures beyond the Self'.

The results came November 27 after an in-depth evaluation process led by a panel of juries.
287
Spring is coming and with it more live entertainment with musical evenings, theatre and film screenings at Rialto. The theatre prepares for a new month of performances presented both live at the venue for the permitted number of spectators and streamed online for a dose of the dearly-missed cultural events.

In Memory of Carnival, March 6

Kickstarting March's performances is a musical celebration of the carnival which for the first time in decades won't be echoing throughout Limassol. And so, in an attempt to revive the carnival spirit, Rialto Theatre and six talented musicians (Pedro-Son Caliente, George Koulas, Elias Ioannou, Rodrigo Caceres, Yiorgos Morfitis and Rodos Panayiotou) will present a repertoire of Latin and Salsa music with upbeat Cuban tunes on Saturday 6, starting at 7pm. The concert, titled In Memory of Carnival, will be presented both live on Rialto's stage, as well as virtually and available to watch online for free until March 14. Free entrance

Music from the Theatres of Cyprus, March 12

In the following week, the Cyprus Symphony Orchestra will return to the Rialto stage. In its third concert of the series Music from the Theatres of Cyprus, the Orchestra will present an attractive programme with works by Tchaikovsky and Beethoven.

"It is a heartfelt piece and so, I dare to think, is not lacking in real qualities," Tchaikovsky once said about his Serenade for strings in C major (1880). "We could not agree more," says the Orchestra. "Consisting of four contrasting movements, the music combines elegance with intense emotion and is profuse with melodic invention, especially in the popular Valse. In our days, it has also been used as music for the ballet and films."

The Second Symphony is one of Beethoven's most energetic, cheerful, and outgoing works, full of humour and vitality. According to Lewis Lockwood, researcher of Beethoven, "This symphony signalled that from now on in Beethoven's works power and lyricism in extreme forms were to be unleashed as never before&#8230;"

On March 12, 7 pm, CySO musicians will bring Tchaikovsky's and Beethoven's melodies to Rialto for a one-hour concert. é¼5, 7, 12

Nobody Left Alone, March 14

Next on the agenda is a tribute to rembetiko music. A total of 14 artists, ranging from narrators to musicians, dancers and make-up artists, will present a performance called Nobody Left Alone, a journey across the golden era of Rembetiko, depicting the genesis, development and establishment of the world-renowned Greek folk music genre. March 14's show, starting at 6 pm, is dedicated to the greatest moments of the rembetiko song, as well as to all those musicians who marked the era with their style and music: Tountas, Vamvakaris, Batis, Skarvelis, Hadjichristos, Papaioannou, Tsitsanis et al. Part of the series of concerts Nobody Left Alone organised by Kinisi Politismou. é¼8-10

Picture Perfect

Picture Perfect, March 16-17

The performance to follow on March 16 and 17 is a piece that moves between theatre, dance and photography. Strangely detached from themselves and others, three performers re-enact iconic images from a large photographic archive as a way to understand their presence, place and connection to the world. The award-winning ensemble SRSLYyours challenges the theatrical experience with their Picture Perfect performance, connecting three protagonists, one virtual butler and the audience in one single group-chat for the stage. Partnered with Rialto Theatre and Goethe-institut, the performance will play twice, on Tuesday 16 and Wednesday 17, at 7pm. é¼12-17

Le Grand Soir, March 19

The Embassy of Switzerland is organising a big night on March 19 to pay tribute to Swiss director Francis Reusser, who passed away in 2020. In an evening titled Le Grand Soir, a recently-restored version of his classic 1976 film Le Grand Soir by the Cinémathèque Suisse which won the Locarno Golden Leopard award, will be screened.

The film follows Léon who becomes a security guard in Lausanne after taking up several jobs with the Swiss Confederation, a symbol of the consumer society he detested. One evening, on one of his rounds, he discovers a group of Leninist activists and decides to join them. The film will be presented in French with English subtitles at 7pm. Free entrance

State of Emergency, March 20-21

The performance to follow is a Cyprus Theatre Organisation production written in the Cypriot vernacular by Antonis Georgiou and it takes place outside an intensive care unit. State of Emergency focuses on people intensely experiencing a reality that is as chaotic as human life itself. Extremely relevant to our times, the play highlights the stage of emergency of our society, as well as our struggle to survive in a fluid landscape where victories are significantly fewer than defeats.

This is a play about the common experience of losing a beloved person and the vital need for contact and communication. Addressing difficult issues head-on, the performance is inappropriate for minors. The first show on March 20 will include English subtitles. é¼6, 12

Macumba

Out of Necessity, March 26-27

Towards the end of the month, the Fresh Target Theatre Ensemble will present a performance titled Out of Necessity. In search of identity, Out of Necessity has its starting point at the Constitution of the Republic of Cyprus and the Doctrine of Necessity. "To what extent have these fundamental documents defined, and continue to define, our political status?" asks the play. "How can 'emergency' be converted into 'permanent necessity'? How can an 'escape clause' of necessity determine the way we see life in general? How is our daily life affected?"

To understand, as well as to question, things that are established and taken for granted, the play aspires to rewrite mainstream narratives, with all eyes firmly fixed on the future of the new generation. Out of Necessity is inspired by archival footage, theoretical and literary essays, articles, as well as by the personal narratives and experiences of the creators themselves. é¼12-15

The Women, March 31

Wrapping up the month's performances is a production by the Russian Art Theatre of Cyprus, presented of course in Russian. Based on a 1936 play by Clare Boothe Luce called The Women, the play takes a look at how secrets, gossip, and intrigues are an integral part of any female society. Some topics provide endless inspiration for books, movies, songs and theatre plays. This production focuses on two of them -- marriage and female friendship. What value do these have in modern society? Is friendship stronger than love? Eleven female actors put it to the test. é¼25-30.

Tickets for all March performances from the theatre box office (Monday-Friday: 10 am -3 pm) or online www.rialto.com.cy and through the Rialto App. 
288
With a stunning Kutiyattam performance, a heart-warming musical - city-based Ranga Shankara ended February on a high note, and now the group ups the ante, and start March on an even higher note. Ranga Shankara presents the Gajanana Yuvaka Mandala Trust's 'Vali Vadhe', supported by the Goethe-institut on March 7 their stage comes alive with Kuvempu's 'Shri Ramayanadarshana Darshanam', bringing audiences an insight into relationships and a taste of the richness and glory of Kannada literature.
289
The 11th edition of the international photography exhibition Chobi Mela Shunno concluded in the capital on February 21, and now the festival is being showcased in virtual reality for the next six months, with renowned art agency ARTcon as its virtual exhibition partner.

The virtual exhibition, presenting this special edition of the international biennale festival of photography which is organised by Drik Picture Library Limited and Pathshala South Asian Media Institute, was launched on the same day of the closing of its physical edition.

Since the virtual edition was launched on February 21, art-enthusiasts from home and abroad lauded the advanced and modern implementation of this much-anticipated exhibition which they can explore and enjoy for the next six months.

Describing the initiative, ARTcon founder and Chief Creative Officer at Cosmos Books ARK Reepon told Dhaka Courier that the exhibition will create a new dimension for global art-explorers as it is transcending the barriers of time, regions and other roadblocks.

"We have converted the whole DrikPath building and the artworks into virtual reality so that the audiences can explore the entire exhibition as exactly what it was in physical format. Those of the art-lovers who were unable to visit the festival physically during the ongoing pandemic or due to other circumstances will now be able to experience the exhibition in 3D virtual space on a computer monitor or a VR headset or even at smartphones with an internet connection," Reepon told DC.

He added, "The initial concept crossed our minds when we were in talks with Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy (BSA) regarding a similar initiative on the upcoming 19th Asian Art Biennale Bangladesh 2021, the physical exhibition of which was postponed last year due to the emergence of COVID-19. However, the idea of this virtual exhibition was then welcomed by Drik and after our meeting with Shahidul Alam (renowned international photojournalist and the initiator of Chobi Mela) before the inauguration of the physical festival, we proceed to implement the project with advanced technology."

Reepon informed that the virtual exhibition is covering every single artwork showcased at the physical event from February 12 to 21, with more detailed descriptions and assistance of virtual guides. Every corner of the exhibition venue, the DrikPath building, is being projected including the galleries, staircases and rooftop spaces where the artworks were showcased throughout the festival.

"We have implemented our cutting edge technology to differentiate the time barriers, as some of the artworks were created to be projected at daylight and some of them required the night ambience. So not only this initiative is projecting, documenting and preserving the hard works of the artists, it is also providing outstanding and even better visual experiences to audiences who have missed the physical exhibition," he told DC.

Expressing gratitude on the fact that the concept was materialized with the proper logistic support of the organizers, Reepon said that this idea can also be implemented for showcasing national monuments, such as the National Parliament Building, to the audiences and explorers as permissions for the physical expedition is restricted due to security purpose.

"We have the technology and sound knowledge to provide the best visual experience to the audiences, so if the government and its organizations like BSA proceed to make virtual collaborations with ARTcon on projects like these, I think it will be helpful to everyone from home and abroad, especially to those who are older people or handicapped due to illness who cannot join physical exhibitions," Reepon said to DC.

The 11th edition of this biennale festival, which is titled this year as Chobi Mela Shunno, was joined by a total of 75 artists from countries representing South Asia. Alongside the host nation Bangladesh, artists from India, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka are virtually participating as direct participation of international artists has been avoided due to the ongoing pandemic situation.

The photographs were showcased and now being showcased at the virtual exhibition under eight projects in a total of eight segments, namely Off-Limits, The Rebel with A Smile, Wishing Tree, Frozen Song, Crossroads Collectives' Intervention, Baba Betar, Chhapakhana Archive, Anatomies of Tongues and projects under the Chobi Mela Fellowship 2021 which was awarded to 14 young artists under the special segment curated by Zihan Karim titled 'Bodh', inspired from Jibanananda Das's poem of the same name.

Tanzim Wahab, ASM Rezaur Rahman and Sarker Protick along with guest curators including Anushka Rajendran, Nazmun Nahar Keya and Zihan Karim have curated this year's Chobi Mela.

Photographic artworks from a total of 32 local and foreign artists are being showcased in the curated segments. Participating collectives are Cheragi Art Show (Jog Art Space) from Chattogram, Daagi Art Garage from Dhaka, Kali Collective from Dhaka and Colomboscope from Sri Lanka.

This special edition of the festival also observed and celebrated the 'Drik Day' on February 13, 'Pathshala Day' on February 14, 'Solidarity Day' on February 15 and 'Baba Betar Day' on February 16.

On the fourth day of Chobi Mela, the Translocal Solidarity Networks initiative was launched with a partnership between Chobi Mela and Goethe-institut Bangladesh, dedicated to the theme of solidarity as well as looking into creating support structures for vulnerable cultural organisations and practitioners in South Asia.

For the next six months, the virtual exhibition can be experienced on Chobi Mela official website www.chobimela.org, or by going to the link https://artcon.com.bd/vr/chobimela/.

Since the inaugural edition in 2000, Chobi Mela has been the most significant photographic event in Asia, and the first of a regular biennale which has become one of the highlights of the Asian calendar of art events.
290
 The initiative of Translocal Solidarity Networks was launched on the day four of the Chobi Mela titled Shunno a special edition. It has dedicated one day to the theme 'Solidarity.' This network will function as a participatory and self-critical hub for socially committed artists and cultural organisations across South Asia. The partner consortium consists of Chobi Mela and Goethe-institut offices across South Asia - including Bangladesh, Kolkata, Chennai, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka. Festival Director and Curator of Chobi Mela Tanzim Wahab and Director of Goethe-institut Bangladesh Dr Kirsten Hackenbroch presented the concept of Translocal Solidarity Networks. They shared that the idea took shape, while observing how socially engaged artists and cultural organisations frequently face challenges regarding the environment they work and structures they operate in. The initiative is looking into creating support structures for vulnerable cultural organisations and practitioners in South Asia. "The project aspires to form a starting point for developing collective measures to address concerns of civil society, cultural institutions and socially committed artists," said Kirsten Hackenbroch. Wahab and Hackenbroch emphasised the importance of safe spaces and the creation of tailor-made forums to foster discourse. Further, the multilingualism of the region and its cultural scenes were mentioned as important factors. Translocal Solidarity Networks strives to offer an open hub for people to join and claim their presence. An online platform will allow artist collectives, cultural policy makers, and art professionals to locate themselves and get involved. The platform will include comprehensive archives, free manuals and guidelines.
291
The initiative is looking into creating support structures for vulnerable cultural organisations and practitioners in South Asia

On the fourth day of Chobi Mela, the Translocal Solidarity Networks initiative was launched dedicated to the theme of solidarity with a special edition called 'Shunno'.

Translocal Solidarity Networks is a new, self-critical initiative that thrives to transform into a dynamic movement of knowledge production for critical and socially motivated artist projects and inclusive cultural leadership, said a press statement.

This network will function as a participatory and self-critical hub for socially committed artists and cultural organisations across South Asia.

The initiative's partner consortium consists of Chobi Mela and Goethe-institut offices across South Asia - including Bangladesh, Kolkata, Chennai, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka.

Tanzim Wahab, Chobi Mela's festival director and curator, and Dr Kirsten Hackenbroch, Goethe-institut Bangladesh's director, presented the concept of Translocal Solidarity Networks.

They said that the idea took shape, while observing how socially engaged artists and cultural organisations frequently face challenges regarding the environment they work and structures they operate in.

The initiative is looking into creating support structures for vulnerable cultural organisations and practitioners in South Asia.

'The project aspires to form a starting point for developing collective measures to address concerns of civil society, cultural institutions and socially committed artists,' said Kirsten Hackenbroch.

Wahab and Hackenbroch emphasised the importance of safe spaces and the creation of tailor-made forums to foster discourse. Besides, the multilinguality of the region and its cultural scenes were also mentioned as important factors.

Translocal Solidarity Networks strives to offer an open hub for people to join and claim their presence. An online platform will allow artist collectives, cultural policy makers, and art professionals to locate themselves and get involved. The platform will also include comprehensive archives, free manuals, and guidelines.

Workshops and webinars will be facilitated on topics like- protection, equality, solidarity, and navigating in volatile environments.
292
Goethe-institut Bangladesh, with the Berlinale World Cinema Fund (WCF), is proud to announce the second screening of WCF awarded films in the series titled Berlinale Spotlight World Cinema Fund in South Asia. The event is simultaneously available in India, Pakistan, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh. The series continues to showcase outstanding international productions in the next four months. Each streaming session will be followed by a live QA Talk with the filmmakers moderated by award-winning auteur director Kamar Ahmad Simon from Bangladesh. Kamar himself has been awarded with WCF for his upcoming film Shikolbaha (Iron Stream). All the films have been carefully picked from more than two hundred WCF awarded films. The selected bundle, curated by Sara Afreen and the WCF, has already been in official selection of many international festivals and made notable audience reception for their cinematic brilliance. The second film is Pendular, a film by Brazilian director Julia Murat. It is a winner of the FIPRESCI Award at the Berlin International Film Festival 2017 (Panorama) and Audience Award at the AFI Fest 2017. The film opens for streaming on February 26 at 3:00pm and is available for viewers until February 27 at 3:00pm. World Cinema Fund (WCF) is a prestigious initiative of the Berlin International Film Festival, along with the Federal Foundation for Culture and in cooperation with the Federal Foreign Office, the support of the Creative Europe/Media Programme, the Secretariat of ACP Group of States and further support of the Goethe-institut. Goethe-institut Bangladesh is co-hosting the event with different other Goethe-instituts of South-Asian region in their network.
293
How about solidarity instead of populism? The Goethe-instituts in Europe in partnership with NewKinco invite one and all to take part in SoliDialogues on March 19 and 20, a Europe-wide conversation about solidarity and new forms of cohesion. The idea is to bring together small groups of up to six people -- who've never met before -- in virtual dialogue rooms, where they will listen to and be heard by one another.

Current developments such as climate change, the spread of populist movements and the effects of the coronavirus pandemic pose formidable challenges to European cohesion in the present day and age. In response, calls for more solidarity and community building have been growing louder. But how can inclusive solidarity serve as an antidote to populism?

This is a core question of SoliDialogues. Across two days, perfect strangers from all over Europe -- and beyond -- will delve into this question from various angles and perspectives. When signing up, the participants themselves indicate which facet of the question they wish to discuss in their virtual dialogue room. The topics of discussion are deliberately not set beforehand, but may address questions like: How can we practise solidarity in times of lockdown and social distancing? How might post-Brexit relations look between the UK and the EU? How can we guarantee free speech and artistic freedom? What role do art and culture play in bridging social divides?

The object of the SoliDialogues is to enable a wide range of different opinions and even conflicting standpoints to be heard -- regardless of gender, age, sexual orientation, neurodiversity, political philosophy, ethnicity, nationality or religion. Based on the 'dialogue.one' method, the discussions are primarily about listening to one another rather than engaging in a verbal slugfest. There are set rules to ensure that participants don't interrupt one another, and safeguard freedom of speech. In this manner, the dialogues provide a safe space for collective reflection, open-ended questions and active listening. The discussions will be held in English, and streamed on the SoliDialogues website as well as the Goethe-institut's YouTube channel for anyone interested in listening in.

Anyone who is interested in taking part in a group discussion can sign up until the end of February on the project website.
294
The Trade Ministry filed a lawsuit demanding the dissolution of Anadolu Kultur, an Istanbul-based organization set up by Osman Kavala in 2002 for cross-cultural understanding

US President Joe Biden's administration has urged Turkey to release Kavala without delay and to respect a 2019 ruling from the European Court of Human Rights

Updated 8 sec ago Arab News February 17, 2021 19:27 Follow @arabnews

ANKARA: Turkey is targeting a cultural organization founded by the jailed activist and philanthropist Osman Kavala, who has been behind bars for more than three years without a conviction.

The Trade Ministry filed a lawsuit demanding the dissolution of Anadolu Kultur, an Istanbul-based organization set up by Kavala in 2002 for cross-cultural understanding, claiming that it was originally registered as a commercial enterprise but was operating as a non-profit organization.

Anadolu Kultur is charged with violating Article 210 of the Turkish Commercial Code regarding corporations and ministry personnel may audit the relevant company accordingly.

US President Joe Biden's administration has urged Turkey to release Kavala without delay and to respect a 2019 ruling from the European Court of Human Rights.

The ministry's action is seen as the "continuation of unlawfulness" against Kavala because it is the first of its kind in Turkey's history.

"Our company has carried out all its operations legally and transparently since its establishment in 2002," Anadolu Kultur said in an official statement. "No crime was detected by Turkey's Financial Crimes Investigation Unit and the ministry's investigations."

Anadolu Kultur has undertaken projects in the arts, democracy, civil society and culture to strengthen Turkey's minority groups and help marginalized segments of Turkish society, making the organization a target in pro-government circles.

Pro-government newspapers accuse Kavala of using his foundation to evade monitoring by authorities and channeling foreign donations from entities linked to billionaire philanthropist George Soros. Soros' Open Society Foundation ceased its Turkish operations in late 2018.

Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has called Kavala "a representative of Soros" -- an accusation used to demonize members of civil society in Turkey.

Asena Gunal, general director of Anadolu Kultur, said the lawsuit had been ongoing since last year and explained why the organization had not previously publicized it.

"Following the latest attacks by pro-government newspapers that tried to demonize Anadolu Kultur, we wanted to inform the public about the process," she told Arab News. "There are plenty of companies in Turkey that do not get profits from their business activities. They can even lose money, but they are not obliged to close down. We examined the whole history of business activities and closure requests in Turkey. This one is unprecedented. It is so sad that the law is being instrumentalized in such a way for a politically motivated agenda."

The first trial was held on Dec. 3, 2020, without any media coverage. The next trial will be held on April 15, while the closure process can take years if the government does not appoint a trustee immediately or decide on the company's closure quickly.

Kavala, who is a respected figure in Turkish and European civil society circles, was arrested at Istanbul's AtatÈ­rk airport on Oct. 19, 2017, after returning from a meeting with the Goethe-institut in the southeastern city of Gaziantep.

Earlier this month a Turkish court rejected his request for release on espionage charges.
295
Contract notice: framework agreement for the delivery of mobile air purification devices

For locations with high levels of air pollution, the Goethe-institut will need around 200 mobile air cleaning devices and the corresponding replacement filters over the next 4 years.

This contract is divided into lots: no

Time limit for receipt of tenders or requests to participate: date: 12/03/2021 local time: 12:00

Other activity: bildung und kultur

Major organization : Goethe-institut E. V. ZENTRALE

Address : Postal Address: Dachauer Str. 122

Town: Mnchen.
296
After the successful launch of Kinderuniversity in English and German, the Goethe-institut, has launched the Digital Kinderuniversity in Hindi. This innovative project shall help students aged eight to twelve satiate their curiosity about science-related questions through exciting educational content and accompany them in learning the German language during the process.

The Digital Kinderuniversity, a free online learning platform, shall contribute significantly towards making education more accessible to the public and ensuring development in children from an early age. Currently, Kinderuniversity is offered in Hindi, English, and German. While no prior knowledge of German is required to enroll at Kinderuniversity, students can familiarise themselves with the language, combined with an independent and playful pursuit of science.

At Kinderuniversity, children attend lectures and complete exercises based on STEM + Arts i.e. STE(A)M subjects. They learn from 'Humans', 'Nature' and 'Technology' and are exposed to elements of gamification throughout the course. Students can collect badges that help them advance through levels ranging from Bachelor, Master, Doctorate to Professor. To further incentivise students, certificates can be downloaded anytime and from anywhere.
297
New Delhi [India], February 9 (ANI/NewsVoir): After the successful launch of Kinderuniversity in English and German, the Goethe-institut, has launched the Digital Kinderuniversity in Hindi.
298
Contract notice: Implementation of the consent management platform for the website

In order to bring the client~s marketing and data strategy in line with the highest court requirements, a consent management platform, or CMP for short, is to be integrated into the client~s website. This makes it possible to request, document and manage the consent for the use of cookies. When a user visits a website, the CMP obtains the consent of the user in the form of a banner or a pop-up window to collect, save and process their data. This consent must be valid for the entire website.

This contract is divided into lots: no

Time limit for receipt of tenders or requests to participate: Date: 22/01/2021 Local time: 12:00

Other activity: Kultur und Sprache

Major organization : Goethe-institut.
299
The Glossary Project will bring together a group of young museum professionals from the MENA region and Germany to begin compiling a multicultural terminology publication.

SAWA Museum Academy, in its first 'Virtual Series', invites its alumni from the past five years to participate in a virtual program to discuss museological terms in today's world and conclude with publishing the first issue of the online publication.

The program is set to begin on February 8 and last until April 5, 2021.

For each article in the glossary, one Alumni from a MENA country and one from Germany, will pair up to tackle a museological term and how that it can be defined by looking at its use and value within individual and local museological practices.

Later on during September of this year, SAWA Museum Academy will publish an online publication that includes articles from the lecturers and essays about the terms written and researched by the participants during the SAWA virtual series.

Other virtual series of SAWA Academy will be held in the future under different relevant themes.

During previous editions of SAWA Museum Academy, students from across the MENA region took part in the program, including the UAE, Egypt, Oman, Jordan and Palestine.

In March of last year, SMA was awarded the 'Best Cultural Collaboration Award' for its innovative SAWA Museums Academy program, during the Leading Cultural Destinations Awards (LCD) in Berlin.

SMA's SAWA program also received last year's AGYA award, which recognises initiatives and projects that promote the role and value of humanities in research, education, society, and in communicating humanities to a broader public.

SAWA Museums Academy is a running collaboration between SMA and the Goethe-institut Gulf Region, the University of Applied Sciences (HTW Berlin), and the Staatliche Museen Berlin- Stiftung And Preussischer Kulturbesitz, with sponsorship from Volkswagen Stiftung.

Since it was launched five years ago, SAWA Academy has graduated 80 participants from the MENA region and Germany. The online version of the virtual academy will 20 of SAWA Academy Alumni.
300
A new call for applications has been launched for artists and creatives that looks at the struggles and opportunities industry professionals face. Voices of Culture is the structured dialogue between the European Commission and its cultural sector. It is funded by the European Union and currently implemented by Goethe-institut Brussels.

The fourth topic of Voices of Culture 2019 -- 2021 will ask questions about the challenges and opportunities for the status and working conditions of artists and others in the cultural sector. How can new priorities, policies, actions and funding streams better address this issue?

The call is open to representatives of the cultural and creative sectors with relevant expertise on the topic Status and Working Conditions of Artists and Cultural and Creative Professionals who would like to contribute to discussions with the European Commission. Those applying must be from one of the 27 EU Member States.

Pre-Covid-19, the cultural and creative sectors were already characterised by fragile working practices. A fragmented organisation of creative value chains, often project-based and precarious work, non-profit character of many activities and (often not well-remunerated) IP-based revenue and income models are only a few of the elements contributing to this.

The Covid-19 crisis is causing immense losses in revenue opportunities and possibilities to perform art and cultural activities, with the more fragile players suffering the most. Longer-term effects relate to changes in cultural demand and engagement, the need for skills to cope with the new situation, risks of exacerbation of inequalities within the sector, brain drain from the sector and impoverishment of the diversity of expression.

To strengthen the sectors, it is essential to keep developing sustainable business models and to work on building an ecosystem that ensures decent living and working conditions for artists and cultural and creative professionals.

Successful applicants will be invited to a Digital Brainstorming Meeting on April 27-28 and to a dialogue meeting in Brussels on 29 June 2021 (digitally, if applicable) to share their input on several areas of discussion.

Voices of Culture participants will write a Brainstorming Report after the Brainstorming Meeting. In this report, the results of the discussion between participants at the Brainstorming Meeting will be expressed. This report will then be presented by participants to the European Commission at the Dialogue Meeting.
301
 With the vision of giving insights to the principals into the untapped opportunities and a brighter future for young students, Goethe-institut organized the First Virtual PASCH Principals' Conference South Asia North 2021 'The German Ways And The Ways With German' from 22.01.2021 to 24.01.2021.The conference aimed to bring together principals of PASCH Schools of the Northern South Asian region, who are supported by the Goethe-institut.

For this initiative, Goethe-institut partnered with leading schools in some of the major cities in Pakistan. Schools in Karachi, Lahore, Islamabad, Peshawar and Rawalpindi were engaged in the first virtual PASCH principals' conference.

During the three-day conference, the PASCH-Initiative and its goals were discussed in detail and the resulting perspectives for students in South Asia were explored together with the school principals.

Speaking on the occasion, Ms Veronika Taranzinskaja, PASCH Head of South Asia, said, 'The conference brought discourse and reflection on interconnecting educational issues. The digital format of the conference did not allow for real encounters, but we were able to create an intimate exchange between principals and their representatives across the borders of India, Nepal, Bangladesh, Pakistan and Iran.'

On the first day of the conference, the guests were welcomed by Dr Berthold Franke, Director of the Regional Institute New Delhi and Head of the South Asia Region, followed by Dr Christoph Veldhues, Head of Language Department, Goethe-institut Munich. The Cultural and Visa Department of the German Embassy, New Delhi supported the conference with opening remarks on the role of the PASCH-Network in South Asia and also with important tips on Visa-Application for Germany.

The main objectives of PASCH Initiative were introduced such as awakening interest and enthusiasm for Germany, motivating young people to learn German, to create intercultural understanding, by creating spaces for transcultural interaction between students.

A presentation of the PASCH projects in 2020/2021 was given by Ms Veronika Taranzinskaja.

The school principals also received information from the DAAD on living, studying and working in Germany. The representatives of the AHK with the Pro Recognition project showed which professional perspectives, graduates from South Asia can expect, especially with regard to apprenticeships and what support for the recognition of qualifications from Pro Recognition looks like in concrete terms.

A model was also presented on how professional orientation at PASCH schools could take place. Numerous school principals showed interest in the same.

During the Barcamp on the second day of the conference; the school principals brought up current educational topics from everyday school life. Motivating contributions were made on the topics of 'building the alumni network', 'learning in the new world' and 'classroom management in online learning', which led to constructive discussions.

Dr Steinmetz, a Specialist STEM vocabulary in GFL lessons and co-author of 'German for Engineers', 2018, explained how the promotion of technical language in STEM clubs at PASCH schools could be done. This topic holds a lot of importance for the South Asian high school graduates, as most of them choose Germany as their place of study and opt for STEM-relevant subjects.

A lot of variety and hilarity were brought by the workshop 'These Strange German Ways', conducted by Mrs Puneet Kaur, Head German in 1000 Schools. Principals also approached the German language in a 'Learn German 1' course.
302
An online film screening event titled Berlinale Spotlight World Cinema Fund will begin at Goethe-institut in the capital on Friday. World Cinema Fund (WCF) initiated the film screening series in South Asia - India, Pakistan, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh. The online series will showcase outstanding international productions in the next four months. In addition to the sessions, each screening will be followed by a live QA Talk with the filmmakers moderated by award-winning auteur Director Kamar Ahmad Simon from Bangladesh. Kamar himself has been awarded with WCF for his upcoming film Shikolbaha (Iron Stream). All the films have been carefully picked from more than two hundred WCF awarded films. The selected bundle has already been in official selection of many international festivals and made notable audience reception for their cinematic brilliance.
304
The Goethe-institute Jordan together with the German Institute for Economic Education (IÖB, University of Oldenburg) and in cooperation with the Queen Rania Teacher Academy (QRTA) and six local secondary schools presented its project "Entrepreneurship in school practices in Jordan".

The project is financed by the German Foreign Departments and aims at establishing cooperative professional teacher training programmes in 2020. Teachers should not only be trained to teach economic education and entrepreneurship principles, but also become future trainers for their colleagues, according to a statement from organisers.

Building up entrepreneurs will play a great role in the economy of Jordan because they are the business makers who will help solve lots of social and unemployment problems, said Sawsan Zayed, entrepreneurship and business teacher.

"Entrepreneurship means success, it means the future,it means the solution for real life problems that we face. It is something that everyone should know about," she added.

Zayed was among a number of Jordanian teachers who took part in a five-day training that tackles entrepreneurship at schools in Jordan, said the statement.

A total of four teachers, alongside with six trainers of the QRTA, benefitted from the digital "Train the Trainer" event. coming from some local private schools.

QRTA trainers and local teachers will continue conducting the entrepreneurship training in 2021 within the Goethe-institut project.

Dana Abu Sara, a member at QRTA, recounted that many students prefer to search for governmental jobs where they can secure a "job stability".

"They [students] have to look at the challenges around them as a chance for them to find new ideas to be able to come up with their own projects in the future and deal with them."

Teachers agreed that there are a number of skills they described as "vital" in the field of entrepreneurship, including problem solving, critical thinking and communication skills, according to the statement.

Meanwhile, participants noted that economic education plays an important role in bringing about success for a country.

Amjad Abu Hilal, a teacher educator at QRTA, stressed that economic education should be one of the major topics taught rather than being a minor one.

Many teachers agreed that the training as a measure of the entrepreneurship project equipped them with a number of important skills and background in the field of entrepreneurship, like how to design a business plan and make market analysis, said the statement.

Dima Hijazin, a design teacher at a private school said that "every problem in our society should be a challenge that can be turned into an opportunity".
305
Tenders are invited for Provision of Goethe-institut bogota, General planning services

The Goethe-institut (GI) Bogota was housed in a state-owned existing property until 2008. An earthquake investigation carried out in 2006 revealed the need for an earthquake retrofit, so that the building was cleared and is still empty today. It is intended to restore the existing property for the purposes of the GI Bogota by means of general refurbishment including an earthquake retrofit. The main house was officially built in 1957 (already 1951 according to photo credits) as a residential building. From 1977 to 1991 the building was used as the GDR~s office and during this time 2 additional buildings were added. After reunification, the GI Bogota moved in in 1992. The entire building ensemble is now a listed building. The GI has a space plan for 1,029 m 2 of usable space. The currently available floor space of approx. 800 m 2 (NF 1-6) therefore does not cover the demand, so that in addition to the general renovation, a structural expansion of the property is required. The planning is mainly carried out taking into account local standards, but in some areas also according to standards that are specified by German legal and technical rules. The German standards of occupational health and safety are to be implemented accordingly and adapted to local conditions. The quality and depth of the planning phases and the construction supervision are to be based on German standards. A particular challenge is earthquake protection according to Eurocode 8 (PGA value Bogota according to GSHAP 4: 3.2 653 m / s 2 ), which, according to an expert report, was achieved by gutting the main building (ceilings / walls) and rebuilding the supporting structure while maintaining the listed building Facade and the restoration of the original room structures. Furthermore, the window elements of the main building are to be replaced by replicas, while complying with the requirements for thermal insulation and soundproofing, whereby the slim window profiles are to be retained. The functionality of the building is to be increased by renewing the entire building technology. Most of the construction work is to be tendered locally. An opening to the local market and implementation with local building products is intended. A synopsis should be used to check whether deviations from this are necessary to achieve the project goals. The selection of the general planner should be made by means of a two-stage negotiation process with a competition. In the first stage, applicants are checked for their suitability and a maximum of six participants are selected for the second stage. In the second stage, idea sketches for 2 planning variants are to be developed on the basis of a specific task for the property and a fee offer is to be submitted.
306
Interested women can submit their projects details by January 31, 2021

Sultana's Dream is inviting entries for a women-only short film grant competition. Women can submit their proposals for 5-8 mins short films of any genre or style. The organizers are looking for film topics related to women's experiences of sexual abuse and survival. Be it fiction, documentary, visual essay, animation, experimental, all is welcome in this competition.

Inspired by Begum Rokeya, a pioneer of women's education in South Asia, and her 1902 novel Sultana's Dream, the platform strives to connect women across generations through their stories. Film-maker Rubaiyat Hossain talked to Dhaka Tribune Showtime about the importance of such an initiative.

"Sultana's Dream is a platform that I have created to promote filmmaking opportunities for women and to create a gender balance in the cinematic landscape as a whole," she said. "Historically men have been making films about women, telling women's stories, assuming a woman's voice."

"It's time, as women, we intervene in the process of mostly men telling our stories and deciding how we go down in history," she added.

Also read: 'Made in Bangladesh' enters Golden Globes race

The novel, Sultana's Dream, is a science fiction set in a world where women operate in the public space, and in order to maintain purdah, men have gone into the inner quarters. In Sultana's dream world, subversions are possible and women can take up public space without fear or guilt. As the number of violence against women cases escalate all over Bangladesh, it is of paramount importance for women to put forward their own narratives, take up public imagination with their stories and proclaim their individuality.

The platform, in partnership with Khona Talkies and distribution partner Goethe-institut Bangladesh, will provide mentorship, logistics and financial support for the selected projects. Interested women can submit the following details: Director's Note (1000 words), Synopsis (1000 words), One Line Budget, and Visual Reference by January 31, 2021.
307
Tenders are invited for Provision of operation of the central data center and network management in the central

Gegenstand dieses Loses sind der Betrieb und das Management der vom Goethe-institut bereitgestellten Server-, Storage- und Netzwerkkomponenten in einem vom Anbieter betriebenen Rechenzentrum inklusive der bernahme der Betriebsverantwortung bis Betriebssystemoberkante, den Anwendungsbetrieb fr ausgewhlte Dienste sowie die berfhrung einzelner Systeme in einen Cloud-Betrieb und die bernahme der Betriebsverantwortung nach der Migration.

This contract is divided into lots: yes

Time limit for receipt of tenders or requests to participate: Date: 29/01/2021 Local time: 12:00

Other activity: Bildung und Kultur

Major organization : Goethe-institut E. V. ZENTRALE

Address : Postal Address: Oskar-Von-Miller-Ring 18

Town: Mnchen.
308
The education network China, founded in early 2020, presented its goals and projects to the public for the first time in a digital event on November 30th. Michelle Mntefering, Minister of State in the Foreign Office and Wu Ken, Chinese Ambassador to Germany, emphasized the importance of the education network China in terms of intensifying exchange.

Germany and China have had close ties for decades. In view of the importance of the People's Republic, in-depth knowledge of China is of increasing relevance. However, preoccupation with China has so far only played a minor role in the German education system. The number of Chinese learners across Germany is stagnating at around 5,000 students. In China, on the other hand, the number of students learning German has almost doubled to 23,000 in just a few years, so that German is now the second most popular foreign language in Chinese schools.

The Mercator Foundation and the Goethe-institut have set up the China Education Network in order to expand the teaching of China skills at German schools and to intensify the exchange between young people from both countries . The initiative also focuses on promoting young Chinese people's knowledge of Germany. The offers are aimed at schools, teachers and students in Germany and China. The educational network works closely with the Goethe-institut China. Through programs such as the Germany-China School Partnership Fund and the Virtual StudentXChangeThe education network promotes personal and virtual exchange between schools. Schoolchildren from both countries carry out projects together and thus gain an insight into the life, language and culture of the other country. In addition, the educational network creates teaching materials, offers advanced training and networking opportunities for teachers and grants for schools.

The Education Network China is an initiative of the Mercator Foundation and the Goethe-institut, which is implemented in close cooperation with the Conference of Ministers of Education, in particular the Pedagogical Exchange Service (PAD) of the Conference of Ministers of Education and Cultural Affairs. The goals of the network are also supported by the Federal Foreign Office and the Federal Ministry of Education and Research.
309
The eighth edition of Reel Desires: Chennai International Queer Film Festival, will go virtual this year with 25 films from 12 countries. Organised by Orinam and Goethe-institut, in partnership with Nirangal, Chennai Queer Café (CQC), SAATHII, and East-West Center for Counselling and Training, the festival will feature films, shorts and documentaries showcasing sexuality and gender diversity issues, and be spread over two weekends covering December 5, 6,12 and13.The festival opened on Saturday with the world premiere of 'Sab Rab de Bande', a documentary on queer Sikhs by Sukhdeep Singh, and screening of the films 'Willem' by Dave Hastings and 'Oruvanukku Oruthi' by Vimal Santiago, among others On December 6, the play 'Siriippu than varuthu' in Tamil, directed by A Mangai will be shown. On December 12, there will be a discussion on 'LGBTIQA+ Community Activism: Priorities post-Navtej and Covid-19', featuring activists from across India. Login details at ciqff.org The event is free. For more information log on to goethe.de. 
310
In order to bring the client~s marketing and data strategy in line with the highest court requirements, a consent management platform, or CMP for short, is to be integrated into the client~s website. This makes it possible to request, document and manage the consent for the use of cookies. When a user visits a website, the CMP obtains the consent of the user in the form of a banner or a pop-up window to collect, save and process their data. This consent must be valid for the entire website.

This contract is divided into lots: no

Time limit for receipt of tenders or requests to participate: Date: 22/01/2021 Local time: 12:00

Other activity: Kultur und Sprache

Major organization : Goethe-institut E. V. ZENTRALE

Address : Postal Address: Oskar-Von-Miller-Ring 18

Town: Mnchen

Postal Code: 80333

Country :Germany
311
The education network China, founded in early 2020, presented its goals and projects to the public for the first time in a digital event on November 30th. Michelle Mntefering, Minister of State in the Foreign Office and Wu Ken, Chinese Ambassador to Germany, emphasized the importance of the education network China in terms of intensifying exchange.

Germany and China have had close ties for decades. In view of the importance of the People's Republic, in-depth knowledge of China is of increasing relevance. However, preoccupation with China has so far only played a minor role in the German education system. The number of Chinese learners across Germany is stagnating at around 5,000 students. In China, on the other hand, the number of students learning German has almost doubled to 23,000 within a few years, so that German is now the second most popular foreign language in Chinese schools.

The Mercator Foundation and the Goethe-institut have set up the China Education Network in order to develop Chinese skills at German schools and to intensify the exchange between young people from both countries . The initiative also focuses on promoting young Chinese people's knowledge of Germany. The offers are aimed at schools, teachers and students in Germany and China. The educational network works closely with the Goethe-institut China. Through programs such as the Germany-China School Partnership Fund and the Virtual StudentXChangeThe education network promotes personal and virtual exchange between schools. Schoolchildren from both countries carry out projects together and thus gain an insight into the life, language and culture of the other country. In addition, the educational network creates teaching materials, offers advanced training and networking opportunities for teachers and grants for schools.

The Education Network China is an initiative of the Mercator Foundation and the Goethe-institut, which is implemented in close cooperation with the Conference of Ministers of Education, in particular the Pedagogical Exchange Service (PAD) of the Conference of Ministers of Education and Cultural Affairs. The goals of the network are also supported by the Federal Foreign Office and the Federal Ministry of Education and Research.
312
IT IS not often that siblings team up to release music but Jaleesa Gaoses, known as Taylor Jaye and her brother Edrio Gonteb, known as Chin Chilla, will release their collaborative extended play (EP), project 'Rise Of Jaye Walker', on 28 November 2020.

Taylor Jaye and DJ Castro last Friday evening graced 'The Night Under the Stars' finale 2020 at Goethe-institut Namibia in Windhoek. At the show Taylor Jaye performed a few of her new songs. Chin Chilla also joined her on stage for an epic performance.

This is, however, not the first time the siblings have released music together. Last year, they teamed up with Nigerian reggae-dancehall singer and songwriter, Patoranking for the award winning song 'Cashe'.

The duo's new EP is a predominantly dance album with an emphasis on Amapiano sounds.

"The visual aspect of the album is inspired by our love of sci fi films such as 'Star Wars' and 'Star Trek'. We always try and incorporate different facets of our personal life in our music and art," Taylor Jaye says.

According to her, they aim to uplift people's spirits with the album, especially after the tumultuous challenging year with the Covid-19 pandemic.

"It is a dance album and we want people to dance. We had a lot of fun making this album and those good vibes definitely translated into the music and we are hoping it transfers to the fans as well," she said.

Taylor Jaye says she enjoyed working with Chin Chilla because he always brings out the best in her. She said they had teamed up since they were young.

"We entered a song writing competition when we were seven years old, that was the first song we wrote together. We did not win the competition, but the experience was what mattered the most. We believe that by participating in that contest helped us to become the musicians we are today," she said.

While working on the EP, Chin Chilla says he went out of his comfort zone trying out something new. This is the first time he was doing high tempo dance music.

"I am a hip-hop artist, so it was fun putting on another hat for a change. I feel like this is the best album in the country and people must be on the lookout for it," he said.

Chin Chilla says he enjoyed working with Taylor Jaye because she has a great working ethic and always pushes her and everyone around her to be at their best.

"While growing up, I remember always teaming up with Taylor Jaye, to play TV games against our cousins and we would always win, so with her I am on the winning team. It feels great to finally drop the EP. It is something that we have been talking about for years now.

"How many people can say 'I got an album with my sister'. It's special because it's family first," Chin Chilla says.

Besides music, Taylor Jaye says she will soon release a clothing line 'The Exclusive Jaywalker'.
313
The working conditions for the nursing staff are gradually being improved. That is the result of a firstImplementation reportConcerning the Concerted Action Care (KAP), which was presented today by Federal Family Minister Franziska Giffey, Federal Labor Minister Hubertus Heil and Federal Health Minister Jens Spahn. After that, important measures for better pay, for more trainees and more colleagues at the side of the nursing staff were implemented.

Federal Health Minister Jens Spahn:

How we ensure good care is the social question of the 1920s. We answer that with the concert action. We ensure better pay, more jobs and good training. This is how we make care better for everyone: for career starters and for experienced caregivers. And most of all for those in need of care and patients who receive more attention.

Federal Minister for Family Affairs Franziska Giffey:

Nursing care in Germany is enormous. Strengthening them and providing the skilled workers with better working conditions is a task that we tackle together, because we can only master it together. Excellent care only takes place where motivated and well-trained caregivers work. That is why we want to attract and retain skilled workers. We work to ensure that young people who are interested in this profession have good training conditions and diverse development opportunities. Nurses make a valuable contribution to our society, and that must be paid accordingly. The most recent collective bargaining agreement in the public sector was a correct sign here. But money isn't everything - we're working to ensure that nursing professions as a whole are upgraded.

Federal Minister of Labor Hubertus Heil:

Nurses work hard and often in difficult conditions. Working with and on people is physically and psychologically demanding and it means a high level of responsibility and stress. That was true before Corona, but the pandemic has once again made it clear what nursing staff can do. We need to improve working conditions in nursing. The key to this is more staff and adequate pay. As a society, we owe that to the nursing staff. That is exactly what we have tackled with the concerted care campaign. One of the first successes is that nursing wages will rise uniformly nationwide by April 2022. Collective agreements mean fair wages and good working conditions. They specifically improve the situation of the nursing staff. That is why the prospect of a generally binding collective bargaining agreement for the entire care industry is an important signal. As soon as I have an application for extension, we will examine it quickly. And when the requirements are met, I will make this collective agreement binding for the entire industry. We continue on this path.

In June 2019, the federal government, the federal states and all relevant stakeholders in nursing agreed binding goals and specific measures for better working conditions, better wages, more training places and more personal responsibility for nursing staff. The report presented today shows how far the measures have already been implemented.

The results in detail

More staff

Relief and improvement of working conditions require more staff. The following measures have already been initiated:

The personnel assessment procedure for fully inpatient care facilities is to be anchored in law shortly. The members of the Concerted Action Care have discussed the essential steps in an accompanying roadmap process. As a first step, the Health Care and Care Improvement Act will create 20,000 additional jobs for nursing assistants from January 1, 2021. The positions are fully financed by long-term care insurance; this will not increase the self-care share of those in need of care.

Health and care facilities are supported in recruiting international nursing staff. To this end, the German Agency for Skilled Workers for Health and Nursing Professions (DeFa) was set up in 2019. For the countries of origin Philippines, Mexico and later Brazil, it takes on the applications for entry, professional recognition and employment permits for nurses from third countries so that they can enter Germany and work more quickly. The foreign business of the Federal Employment Agency ( BA ) remains unaffected.

A Central Service Agency for Professional Recognition (ZBSA) has been created for skilled workers abroad, which advises those seeking recognition on the possibilities of recognizing their foreign professional qualifications, informs them about the related questions of residence law and accompanies them through the recognition process (pilot function). The ZSBA is part of the Central Foreign and Specialized Mediation ( ZAV ) of the BA in Bonn and is funded by the Federal Ministry of Education and Research as a model project for four years.

An integral part of the recruitment of skilled workers are rules for ethically high quality recruitment and protection of nursing staff as well as comprehensive measures for operational and social integration. The German Competence Center for International Skilled Workers in the Health and Nursing Professions (DKF), founded in 2019, is developing a seal of approval and a tool case for operational and social integration. The DKF also supports the health and care facilities in their implementation.

The corona pandemic has a significant impact on the support of specialist and language training for foreign nurses in the countries of origin. The Goethe-instituts endeavor to continue offering language courses in compliance with the locally applicable hygiene and safety regulations.
314
Framework contract: Advanced training, Coaching, Leadership and digitization at the Goethe-institut (lot 1, Conducting face-to-face seminars and blended learning formats) - relocation

The Goethe-institut concludes 15 framework agreements for lot 1 on the basis of the present award procedure. The service content is the implementation of face-to-face seminars and blended learning formats for employees of the Goethe-institut.

This contract is divided into lots: no

Time limit for receipt of tenders or requests to participate: Date: 07/12/2020 Local time: 14:00

Other activity: Bildung und Kultur

Major organization : Goethe-institut E. V. ZENTRALE

Address : postal address: oskar-von-miller-ring 18

town: mnchen
315
With support from Goethe-institut, the group gave cash prizes to the three winners

A Nigerian satirical platform, (https://punocracy.com/) Punocracy, in Ibadan on Monday, held the second edition of its annual prize-giving ceremony for (https://punocracy.com/prize/) satire writing.

The group also celebrated the 'World Day of Satire' during a webinar themed The Relevance of Satire in Today's World.

Like the award event whose (https://www.premiumtimesng.com/entertainment/artsbooks/361971-group-holds-award-ceremony-for-satire-writing.html) maiden edition was held last year, the World Satire Day, celebrated on November 9, is now in its second year after the group declared the day last year.

Punocracy first ran as a regular satirical column styled after Andy Borowitz's 'The Borowitz Report' of The New Yorker at the University of Ibadan by a student under the pseudonym, Tubosun Ajanaku, it said in a release.

The platform had earlier (https://punocracy.com/odueso-olajide-nzere-clinch-top-spots-in-2020-satire-prize-contest/) announced the winners of the prize, which was judged by Elnathan John, a Germany-based Nigerian author of satirical blockbuster, Be(com)ing Nigerian; and Chuma Nwokolo, a lawyer, publisher and author who wrote, among others, The Ghost of Sani Abacha.

Oluwatimilehin Odueso, Favour Olajide, and Solomon Nzere, emerged as the top entrants for the prize, Punocracy had earlier announced.

Mr Odueso's (https://punocracy.com/how-to-raise-a-true-believer/) How to raise a true believer was adjudged the overall best entry, followed by Mr Olajide's (https://punocracy.com/the-next-nigerian-leader/) The Next Nigerian Leader: A reality TV show, and Mr Nzere's (https://punocracy.com/the-gospelpreneur-letter-to-david/) The Gospelpreneur -- Letter to David.

With support from Goethe-institut, the three winners respectively recieved cash prizes of N70,000, N50,000, and N30,000, and Light Multifarious Bookstore complemented the awards with book prizes, the group further said in a statement on Tuesday.

Candidates in the (https://punocracy.com/shortlist-2020/) honourable mentions, Jummah Mujeeb and Fatimah Otukoya, each got a cash prize of N10,000 and certificate for their entries in the newly introduced visual art category, it added.

Commenting on the entries, Mr John commended the entrants for their use of wit, sarcasm, exaggeration and irony, which are key elements of satire, in telling their stories.

"Good satire not only ridicules our political failures or cultural foibles," Punocracy quoted him as saying on its site, "it is also a call to action. For satire to be this call to action, it must avoid things which may distract from this engagement.

"Satire can be subtle or brutal, and can use various styles, but it always has a serious concern. It cannot be flippant. Like a person wielding a weapon, every stroke must be deliberate or one risks harming the wrong person or harming oneself."

Mr Nwokolo also noted that satire must reflect a distaste for certain societal norm, but first, its delivery must be one to make the public think.

Panellists at the webinar include Victor Daniel, lawyer and features writer at Nigeria Abroad; and Andrew Unger, author of satirical novel Once Removed and founder of Canadian satire website, The Daily Bonnet.

While delivering the welcome address, the group's lead, Kunle Adebajo, harped on the need for satire in contemporary Nigerian society and the world.

He said the World Day of Satire and by extension the group's goal was to make the public understand satire, thereby accepting it as a tool to drive social change, tackle societal ills, and trigger political consciousness in the country.

In his session, Mr Unger said humour can either be innate or learnt, but "it requires knowledge and literacy. It requires people to be taught to understand. It is different from slapstick."

He went to differentiate between satire and false news, saying, "Satirical news are never intended to trick people, but to get people thinking, talking and laughing. Not only are you making a point, you are also making people laugh."

On his part, Mr Daniel said the media needs to invest more contents, resources and funds into satire in order to create far-reaching awareness of the genre in Nigerian.

"Satire needs to go mainstream (in Nigeria). In America, people use comedy to expose the complexities in the society, from TV shows to entertainment. This will happen when media organisations are willing to give room for satire to thrive. We need more satirists to use social commentaries for the good of all," he said.

"Writers of satire in Nigeria are one of the best around the world, but bigger platforms need to elevate the genre," he added. "By this, it will trigger political consciousness in the average Nigerian."

Although satire is still largely under-explored in Nigeria, a few Nigerians, especially entertainers, are using it to deliver their contents. Some of them are Falz in his "Moral instruction" and "This is Nigeria" songs and Debo Macaroni in his recent skits on #EndSARS.
316
The contractor, as a content integrator, is responsible for maintaining the CMS operation and regularly imports content updates. The Contens integrator also develops websites, templates, applications, object classes, format templates and interfaces based on the CMS Contens, taking data protection, data security and IT security into account. He also integrates third-party applications into the CMS and is responsible for the technical integrity of the system.

This contract is divided into lots: no

Time limit for receipt of tenders or requests to participate: Date: 01/12/2020 Local time: 12:00

Other activity: Bildung und Kultur

Major organization : Goethe-institut E. V. ZENTRALE

Address : postal address: oskar-von-miller-ring 18

town: mnchen
317
The contractor, as a content integrator, is responsible for maintaining the CMS operation and regularly imports content updates. The Contens integrator also develops websites, templates, applications, object classes, format templates and interfaces based on the CMS Contens, taking data protection, data security and IT security into account. He also integrates third-party applications into the CMS and is responsible for the technical integrity of the system.

This contract is divided into lots: no

Time limit for receipt of tenders or requests to participate: Date: 01/12/2020 Local time: 12:00

Other activity: Bildung und Kultur

Major organization : Goethe-institut E. V. ZENTRALE

Address : postal address: oskar-von-miller-ring 18

town: mnchen
318
By photo by Entertainment Desk : The IIUSFF Talents 2020 is an international platform that supports student filmmakers from all over the world. The program is organised by Dhaka University Film Society (DUFS), in association with UNHCR, the UN Refugee Agency and Goethe-institut Bangladesh. This year, due to the ongoing global pandemic situation, the IIUSFF Talents 2020 is being held online from October 25 to 30. This year's Talents session will feature a script lab, pitching session, masterclass, and filmmaking funds. Two filmmaking funds will be given to the best projects of IIUSFF Talents 2020. The funds are supported by Goethe-institut Bangladesh. The six-day long script lab will help the participants to develop the script of their film and prepare the project for pitching. Expert mentors from different continents of the world will guide the participants through this process via group meetings and one-to-one sessions.
319
 Celebrating nine years of jazz from around the world, this year's Amman Jazz Festival (AJF) is going local and online from November 5-10 with a special homegrown line-up that encourages creation in Jordan, according to a statement from the organisers.

Concerts of both AJF and its parallel event "Musiqa 3al Daraj", will be streamed from the heart of Amman and shared with the whole world digitally for free, the statement said.

AJF is the only major event dedicated to jazz in Jordan, which has succeeded in gathering local and international professionals, attracting a wide audience over the years and expanding globally, while creating opportunities for sustainable cultural exchanges.

The festival is known to celebrate diversity, cultural fusion, creativity, unity and dialogue by featuring international, regional and local jazz musicians, the statement said.

This year's special ninth edition presents exclusively Jordanian musicians to an international audience online, switching the cultural exchange around with an approach that is novel to the acclaimed festival, according to the statement.

AJF is creating a persistent digital stage in the times of COVID-19, serving the Jordanian independent music scene to connect beyond borders, initiate new projects and productions, to start new musical conversation and to introduce fresh sounds, read the statement.

"What we are aspiring for is to re-think the new now, the new tomorrow, and come up with alternative solutions in these challenging times, rooted in our mission to move the industry forward by supporting the local independent music scene, through providing the opportunities needed for the musicians to flourish", Lama Hazboun, founder of AJF was quoted in the statement as saying.

Additionally, the festival is hosting the second edition of "Musiqa 3al Daraj" realised by Orange Red and the Goethe-institut Jordan; a special concert series which has proven popular since last year, bringing Jordanian indie music to the public staircases of Amman, away from classical locations and closer to the hearts of people.

Abiding by safety measurements, this second edition will be realised on different staircases of the MMAG Foundation in old Amman, where concerts will be filmed to be streamed online to an international audience; in collaboration with the Greater Amman Municipality and supported by the European Union and EUNIC.

"Together with our partners, the Goethe-institut Jordan seeks to make music accessible to people from all walks of life, and to endorse Jordanian artists from various musical backgrounds. Opening public spaces for art and culture has been a focus of our work for the past years. I am excited to see the second edition of 'Musiqa 3al Daraj' come to life under these strange circumstances we are all facing this year," Laura Hartz, director of the Goethe-institut Jordan, said in the statement.
320
By photo by Entertainment Report : The second edition of the Science Film Festival is taking place in Bangladesh from October 1 to December 20 on an online platform. In light of the Covid-19 pandemic, the second edition of the Science Film Festival in Bangladesh is presenting 24 films to the audience of early learners to university students online. The theme for this year is 'Sustainable Development Goals' and the 2020 festival is in global partnership between the Goethe-institut and the UN Environment Programme (UNEP). Goethe-institut Bangladesh in cooperation with the Bangladesh-based partners JAAGO Foundation, Teach for Bangladesh, University of Liberal Arts Bangladesh (ULAB), Centre for Sustainable Development (CSD at ULAB), PASCH-Schools: Partners for the Future, South Point School & College, Oxford International School (OIS), Maple Leaf International School, European Standard School (ESS) and Mastermind International School brought the festival to Bangladesh. As part of a global partnership between Goethe-institut and the UN Environment Programme, the UN in Bangladesh are co-hosting the Festival. The inaugural ceremony of the Science Film Festival 2020 was held on October 7 through a Zoom meeting. Mia Seppo, United Nations Resident Coordinator in Bangladesh and Dr Samiya A Selim, Associate Professor and Director of the Center for Sustainable Development of ULAB, were among the guests who joined the opening event. A good number of science enthusiasts, teachers, environmentalists, scientists and students were among the audience.
321
Last month, Manfred Auster assumed the German consulate office amid the pandemic after Dr Michael Feiner completed his tenure as the Consul General. As the new CG looks forward to "discovering the cultural and intellectual diversity of Kolkata", CT caught up with him for a chat. Excerpts: In the light of this extraordinary pandemic situation, tell us about your journey to India. When did you assume office? I arrived in Delhi on September 10, a Thursday. Due to the lockdown in Kolkata, I had to stay there until the following Sunday. The President of India granted the exequatur on September 18, and I assumed office right after. The flight to Delhi was pleasant enough and since only essential travel is allowed, there was ample room to space out on the plane. The service was awesome and I did arrive relaxed to be greeted by my colleagues from our embassy. Following my arrival I had to quarantine for two weeks, despite testing negative. These two weeks started afresh upon my arrival in Kolkata.Is this your first time in Kolkata or have you visited the city before?I did visit Kolkata in 1979. After I graduated from high school, my late father, who was deeply into Oriental studies and in love with the subcontinent, took me on a voyage to India. Though we could spend just a few days here, I have some fond yet blurred memories of this place. So I hope to retrace some of those memories and look forward to discovering the cultural and intellectual diversity of the city that everyone around me keeps praising. What else are you looking forward to? Many of the things I'd like to do will require the pandemic to come to an end. The consular district of the German Consul in Kolkata includes not only the city and West Bengal, but also Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha and the seven sisters. There are plenty of places to explore and people to meet. Outside Kolkata, Darjeeling and Bodh Gaya are among the places I want to visit first. During my last posting in Haiti, I became really fond of scuba diving and hiking. While diving will probably require some further travel in India, there will be ample opportunity for hiking in the hills and mountains of "my" states.Germany has explored several ways to work with Kolkata's multidisciplinary artists. Do you have any plans for collaborations?The lead for cultural collaboration between Germany and India lies with Max Muller Bhawan, our cultural institute in India, which in other parts of the world is also known as Goethe-institut. I already met with the director of the Kolkata branch, Mr Friso Maecker, who is probably well known to the readers for all the magnificent work he has done here over the last seven years. I am sad to hear that his posting will come to an end soon, but I look forward to continuing the close cooperation he helped to establish between MMB and the Consulate General in the years to come. Part of the wider cultural relations is also the academic exchange. Needless to remind you of the close collaboration between India and Germany in this field over the last century and a half. It will be an immense pleasure to work with the wide network of alumni, including those of the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation to name only this very prestigious organisation.A number of students, who went to Germany from India, came back home due to the pandemic. Did you reach out to them? Is there any programme you might want to conduct for them? I have not had the opportunity to reach out to these students. I do hope that the pandemic comes to an end in 2021, so that universities can return to their normal form of teaching. My children are also attending university -- my son in Washington DC and my daughter in Madrid. I am well aware of the fact that online teaching is only so much of a substitute for the social experience that comes with life on campus. But let me assure the Indian students who stayed in Germany and also their parents that they are well covered in the German health system.As the pandemic continues to rage, Durga Puja - the biggest festival of the state - is round the corner... In normal times, I'd be thrilled to have arrived just in time for Durga Puja. Alas, these times are anything but normal. I do hope that all the people out to celebrate behave responsibly and avoid turning this great festival into a spreader event. How is Germany coping with the COVID-19 crisis?At the beginning of the crisis, Germany had a head start of around three weeks over Italy in particular. The dramatic scenes there raised awareness and allowed us to put measures into place that aimed at preserving the integrity of the health system, the hospitals in particular, by slowing down the virus for a few weeks. Infection cases remained within a manageable margin, but even more importantly, the fatality rate remained low. So till date, we have had over three lakh positive cases, but "only" over 9,500 fatalities. Like in a number of EU countries, if we witness a second wave of infections, some of the measures that had been relaxed a bit over the summer, will have to be tightened again. Social distancing, masking and handwashing remain the new normal. How did you celebrate the 30th anniversary of German reunification?It had been clear for a while now that almost none of the diplomatic and consular missions of Germany would be in a position to celebrate this important anniversary in the traditional style with our friends, as we have done over all these years in Kolkata and elsewhere. So, Team India -- under the leadership of our Ambassador to New Delhi, Walter Lindner -- came up with the project of an Indian interpretation of the famous song Wind of Change by the German band, The Scorpions. I think it is really worth watching and listening (youtu.be/1b4kX9DoUKI). I should also mention that our friends at the Indian-German Chamber of Commerce have put together a very impressive series of online conferences under the title German Days Digitales 2020.
322
The workshop is dedicated to helping the participants develop the screenplay of their film and prepare it for pitching and funding

The IIUSFF Talents 2020, organized by Dhaka University Film Society (DUFS), in association with UNHCR, the UN Refugee Agency, and Goethe-institut Bangladesh, will feature a script lab, masterclass, film funds, and pitching session.

All university students from around the world are invited to apply with their short film projects within October 19. The six-day program is dedicated to helping the participants develop the screenplay of their film and prepare the project for pitching and funding.

A significant component of the annual International Inter University Short Film Festival (IIUSFF), IIUSFF Talents is designed to create a hub for young talented student filmmakers to meet with each other, develop their ideas, learn from industry professionals, and get exposed to professional networking to gather support for their future film-making ventures.

This year, because of the ongoing global pandemic situation, the IIUSFF Talents 2020 will be held online from October 25-30.

Expert mentors from different continents of the world will guide the participants through this process via group meetings and one-to-one sessions.

Four Masterclasses will be held during the program. Participants of the script lab are directly registered for the masterclasses. University Students can also participate in the masterclasses via registration.

A mock pitching session will be held on the last day of the IIUSFF Talents 2020. The final pitching session is scheduled to be held on November 20-21 in the presence of producers, investors, funders and industry professionals.

Two filmmaking funds will be given to the best projects of IIUSFF Talents 2020. The funds are supported by Goethe-institut Bangladesh. For more details, readers can visit the official website of DUFS.
323
Goethe -- Institut Namibia and various local partners will hold the Science Week 2020 under the theme 'Sustainable Development Goals' from 12-19 October.

This year's edition includes a series of experiments for learners, the Science Film Week 2020, a poetry competition and panel discussion. Partners involved are the United Nations Environment Programme, Ministry of Mines and Energy, Namibian Scientific Society and the Scientific Society

Swakopmund.

Targeting learners in primary and middle school, Science Week 2020 has with the support of Imani Scietechnology Investment, produced video clips of three experiments through which the relevance of SDGs are highlighted by the demonstration of scientific concepts that are part of Namibia's education curriculum. These videos will be published on the Goethe-institut Namibia YouTube channel from 14 to 16 October for them to be easily accessible by educators and parents, and will also be part of a Science Pack.

The Science Pack is available at the Goethe-institut Namibia Library and Swakopmud Museum until the end of this academic year. A Science Pack can be leased by a teacher or parent/guardian. Goethe-institut Namibia Director, Daniel Stoevesandt said this year's programme has been designed to reach the minds of as many learners as possible.

"The COVID-19 pandemic has made it impossible for us to visit schools and facilitate the fun experiments for learners, let alone plan in advance. The Science Pack consists of a selection of DVDs from the Science Film Festival 2020, along with those we have produced in Namibia and descriptions of fun experiments that could be done in a kitchen or classroom because they do not require laboratory equipment," Stoevesandt said.

UN Environmental Programme Executive Director Inger Andersen in a statement said to address the Covid-19 pandemic alone is addressing only one symptom of bigger problems including climate inaction, destruction of habitats, widening income and gender gaps, and other problems undermining natural and social support systems.

"Faced with an unprecedented challenge, we may be inclined to fall back on old habits that pollute the planet and deepen social and economic inequality. But it need not be this way. We can build back better from the pandemic," Andersen said.

Science Film Week will feature the screening of a selection of films from the initiative's international catalogue. The screenings held at the Namibian Scientific Society and Scientific Society Swakopmund from 12 to 19 October are open to the public but seats are limited and must be reserved in advance.

Furthermore, a discussion on 14 October at the Goethe-institut Namibia and moderated

by Kombada Mhopenjeni from the Ministry of Mines and Energy features inventors from Namibia who have created something they believe could contribute towards the country's efforts in achieving the Sustainable Development Goals and a Poetry Competition with the focus on these goals is also open to the public and five entrants stand the chance to win a N$250 ABC Stationers voucher.

To reserve the limited seats, send your name and number to [email protected] with 'science' as the subject by 13 October 2020, 12h00.

UN Environment Programme Executive Director, Inger Andersen.
324
Today, October 1, 2020, a meeting of the so-called Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine Serhiy Shkarlet with Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Federal Republic of Germany to Ukraine Anka Feldguzen.

"Cooperation between Ukraine and Germany in the field of education and science is quite fruitful and active both between general secondary education institutions and between higher education institutions and research institutions," said Serhiy Shkarlet.

He thanked the Embassy of Germany and the Goethe-institut in Ukraine for the comprehensive support of Ukrainian education - assistance in the professional development of German language teachers and the development of the school network, in particular:

assistance in the development of training programs for foreign language teachers "Foreign language teaching in grades 1-2 and grades 3-4";

training of trainers for in-service training courses for foreign language teachers (36 German language multipliers);

continuation of professional training of teachers, first of all teachers of 3-4 grades;

creation of a school network, which is being developed in Ukraine by the Goethe-institut Network for Sustainable Development. Today, 22 schools in Ukraine that are part of the network teach CLIL subjects in tandem (teacher of professional discipline + teacher of German).

"It is important to note the active Ukrainian-German cooperation in the field of higher education. Higher education institutions in Germany and Ukraine jointly participate in 6 Erasmus + projects. Traditionally, scientific and technological cooperation between our countries has been of paramount importance - for more than a quarter of a century, as Ukrainian-German cooperation in the field of science and technology was established, "Serhiy Shkarlet emphasized.

For her part, Ambassador of the Federal Republic of Germany to Ukraine Anka Feldguzen stressed the high level of cooperation and assured of further support in the field of education.

"We hope for further cooperation and a high level of partnership. Teams of young professionals from both countries will work on the implementation of joint educational and research projects, "said Ambassador Anka Feldguzen.

The parties also discussed cooperation in support of the New Ukrainian School and drew attention to Articles 8, 12, 35 of the new Law of Ukraine "On Complete General Secondary Education", which reflect and enshrine in law preferences for schools operating in accordance with international agreements.
325
As of the beginning of the new school year in Jordan, two schools from Amman are getting in touch with the Dannewerk and Domschule schools in the city of Schleswig in Schleswig-Holstein, Germany's northernmost federal state, as part of a digital pilot project.

Students from Al Asriyya School from the PASCH network and Al Saadah Schools will exchange opinions on a regular basis in live digital sessions on topics in the fields of politics, society, economy, environment and sustainability, according to a statement from the Goethe-institut Amman.

The distance of 4,500km between the two countries will be crossed virtually, read the statement.

The project is organised by the Goethe-institut Amman in coordination with the German project initiator Klaus-Peter Katzer, according to the statement.

By working together over a period of six months on topics and tasks of their choice, the groups of students in both countries develop their digital skills, "broaden their horizons" and get to know the conditions and culture of the respective partner country, the statement said.

The pupils' contributions are collected on a digital platform.

"In addition to the experience and benefit the students are gaining from this digital project, the supervising teachers in 2021 will have the opportunity to visit the respective partner schools abroad and thus make contacts that will last beyond this pilot project," said Brigitte Brand, teaching expert and Head of PASCH/German Education Cooperation Department, in the statement.

The project is financed by the Ministry of Education of Schleswig-Holstein and by the PASCH initiative of the German educational cooperation programme, Brand said.

On September 7, the kick-off event marked the first digital exchange between the participating German schools, teachers and students, Jordanian teachers and representatives of German authorities.

Minister for Education, Science and Culture of the State of Schleswig-Holstein Karin Prien supports digital education and skills and was open to questions from students during this virtual meeting, the statement said.

The first digital sessions of the student exchange are expected to take place by the end of October.
326
Applicants can apply for support for their projects of up to 70,000 BDT

The Covid-19 pandemic has changed the environment of cultural engagements in the blink of an eye. The everyday of the cultural scene has moved online, and this move has both disconnected some initiatives and activities, while, at the same time connected others.

Furthermore, the pandemic has triggered us to look beyond our immediate human condition to contextualize our being in the world.

How does what we do impact others? How do we consider the non-human and material worlds in our everyday actions? Which futures do we imagine beyond being self-centred on 'surviving online'?

Keeping these questions in mind, the Goethe-institut Bangladesh is inviting all Bangladeshi artists, art collectives, cultural activists, and cultural organisations to apply for funding for innovative projects under the initiative 'Futures beyond the Self'.

The initiative seeks to provide a space for new ideas to flourish and for continued societal and collective engagement. It seeks to support both individuals and collectives in their endeavour to reflect, critique, and suggest alternative futures and pathways of 'being in the world'.

Applications can be either individual or for a collaborative project. Applicants can apply for support for their projects of up to 70,000 BDT. All projects have to be fully implemented by December 10.

A jury of artists and cultural activists together with representatives of the Goethe-institut Bangladesh will review all applications and select the projects to be supported.

The Goethe-institut Bangladesh will award several projects within the total fund of 5 lakh under the 'Futures beyond the Self' initiative.

Duly filled Application Form in PDF format along with a CV has to be sent via email on or before October 5 at [email protected]

Goethe-institut Bangladesh will communicate the results of all successful and unsuccessful applications to the respective artists via email after October 15.
327
After six months of involuntary silence, the Chamber Music Society of Colombo looks forward to being reunited with audiences later this month, in a series of concerts entitled 'Picking up the Pieces'.Led by Music Director Lakshman Joseph-de Saram, the CMSC's string principals (plus flute), will perform a selection of shorter Baroque works by Corelli, Handel and JS Bach, along with Beethoven arrangements of Bach and Albrechtsberger, and lesser-known offerings by Antonio Salieri and Francesco Durante.

The performances will take place at the Goethe-institut hall, 39 Gregory's Rd, at 7:30 p.m.

Saturday 19 and Sunday 20 September, as well as a reprise of the entire programme on Sunday 27 September. Patrons who had purchased tickets for 29 March concert may revalidate them for any of these three dates, in person, at the Goethe-institut library (10am5pm, WedFri), until Friday 11 September.

The remaining tickets Rs. 1,000 unreserved seating will be available to purchase from the Security post, from Saturday 12 September onwards.

The CMSC is especially grateful for the continued support of sponsors and benefactors at this time of uncertainty and flux. It also extends its thanks as always to its Creative Partner, the Goethe-institut, and to its Premier Co-Sponsors for these events, the Italian Embassy in Colombo, and the Tokyo Cement Group.
328
10 September 2020 (TAP News Agency) An educational project aimed at involving local actors (designers, Textilians, civil society activists) in the fashion sector has just been launched by Goethe-institut Tunis and the collective "Pontalent".

Named "Moodha Okhra" in Tunisian dialect, which means in English A, aims to raise awareness about sustainable and responsible fashion, one that respects ethics and the environment, Goethe-institut Tunis said in a statement.

"The vision behind "Moodha Okhra" is also to create a complementary network, involving local actors in the fashion sector and civil society to co-construct this project," the same source added.

This network also aims to raise awareness and federate an active community of designers, experts and people committed to sustainable and ethical fashion.

The project will be launched in two phases:

In the first phase it will be aimed at the general public sensitive to the subject of sustainable fashion with a focus on awareness and education.

In the second phase, it will target entrepreneurs and sustainable fashion project leaders who will benefit from support.

Tunisian designer, Chems Eddine Mechri, better known under the name of his design brand "Born in Tunis", is involved in this project to promote sustainable fashion.

Already, his designs are worked with the vegetal fiber of rush, olive wood, as well as other materials.

Sustainable fashion could be another alternative to impulsive and excessive consumption In Tunisia. It will contribute to change consumption behaviors having harmful effects on ecosystems.

"We want to propose alternatives for new, fairer and more sustainable attitudes towards fashion and the environment by talking to designers, experts and entrepreneurs in textiles," said initiators of this project.

With a goal of impact and awareness dedicated to future Tunisian activists, the project "Moodha Okhra" could therefore trigger an A and more responsible fashion movement in Tunisia.
329
Suponic Global, an American gaming company and DopeApps, a local startup, have entered partnership to promote Rwanda's gaming industry, the two companies said in a joint statement.

The partnership between the two companies seeks to develop a strong and profitable gaming industry in Rwanda and beyond, according to the statement.

AC Green, American retired professional basketball player and the Chief Executive of Suponic Global said the firm will provide a blockchain infrastructure to support the growing demand of video games in the region.

"We are bringing one of the safest and very, secured blockchain empowered technology on the planet," he said in a statement. "We've always wanted to enter the African market especially East Africa and now it is possible with DopeApps."

The partnership will initially focus on developing Suponic Global cryptocurrency in the form of games credit called Suponic Game Credit (SGC), which is being used in more than 300 video games.

"We closed the (partnership) deal a month ago, and we are about to finalise the paperwork once our partners are able to travel to Rwanda. This is an exciting time for the local gaming industry," Robert Mugisha, DopeApps founder, told Doing Business.

DopeApps is one of the winners of the 2019 iAccelerator Award organized by Imbuto Foundation.

The firm is working on a gamification platform in form of a 3D endless runner game to educate players, mostly teens about Adolescent Sexual Reproductive health issues.

Mugisha highlighted that they plan to finish the development of "Keza Game" by the end of this year before they could monetize it a year later.

DopeApps has in the past collaborated with Goethe-institut to develop ILAGIK, a web based and mobile game.

It revolves around Ruganzu, an exiled prince who's striving to revive ILAGIK, his home kingdom that endured a total invasion of the KASHA raiders led by KIGWE, the Mindset Monster.

Rwanda's gaming industry, though nascent, has been growing over the past few years.

There is currently a community of more than 250 gamers and up to 50 developers, who design and develop mobile, web and video PC games, Mugisha asserts.

According to Mordor Intelligence, the global gaming market was valued at $151.55 billion in 2019 and is expected to reach a value of $256.97 billion by 2025, registering a compound annual growth rate of 9.17 per cent over the forecast period (2020 - 2025).

Game developers across emerging economies are continually striving to enhance gamer's experience, launching, and rewriting codes for diverse consoles/platforms, such as PlayStation, Xbox, and Windows PC.
330
Procurement of microsoft cloud licenses and azure consumption

Licenses for software products from Microsoft are procured as required from a trading partner under the following conditions - the Microsoft Campus Agreement (EES Enrollment for Education Solutions) between Microsoft and the Goethe-institut e. V. for eligible institutions from 1.1.2021. The following main services in particular are tendered on the basis of the framework agreement: - Microsoft Office 365 A3 / A5; - Microsoft 365 A3 / A5; - Microsoft Advanced Threat Protection (ATP); - Microsoft Azure Active Directory; - Microsoft Intune; - Microsoft Teams Telephony & Conferences; - Microsoft Azure Consumption.

This contract is divided into lots: no

Time limit for receipt of tenders or requests to participate: Date: 05/10/2020Local time: 12:00

Other activity: Bildung und Kultur

Major organization : Goethe-institut E. V. ZENTRALE

Address : Postal Address: Oskar-Von-Miller-Ring 18

Town: Mnchen
331
 Support for mobile devices. Operation, Migration of the emm platform of the Goethe-institut

The Goethe-institut is looking for a partner who will operate the central MDM (Mobile Device Management Platform) on a Blackberry basis and who will accompany the migration to Intune, who will further develop the MDM and MAM (Mobile Application Management), and who will take over the support of mobile devices. The exact requirements and the job description can be found in the section "Scope of the service" in Appendix A1 Description of services.

This contract is divided into lots: no

Time limit for receipt of tenders or requests to participate: Date: 05/10/2020Local time: 12:00

Other activity: Bildung und Kultur

Major organization : Goethe-institut E.V. ZENTRALE

Address : Postal Address: Oskar-Von-Miller-Ring 18

Town: Mnchen.
332
Miniaturisation of artwork, virtual exhibits, making use of everyday objectsà these are just some of the techniques artists have been using over the past few months to keep their art alive in the months of lockdown.Vasundhara Sellamuthu, a Chennai-based artist, says she has scaled down her recent work to smaller laser-cut studies, which she later paints by hand.ôThese are more convenient to produce under the current circumstances,ö says the artist who is participating in an online show called 'Broadway', curated by city-based artist Sujeet Kumar Sree Kandan's Scaffold Collective.For Parvathy Nayar, a visual artist, collaborations between photography, poetry and art has been an important form of expression during the pandemic. Since the lockdown began, she finds herself seamlessly slipping between media,both digital and traditional.Nayar, whose photo poetry is now presented at HELD by Goethe-institut, Chennai, has been working on smaller series which she finds easy to execute. Nayar says she now works out of a temporary studioshesetup during lockdown at her residence in Egmore.The pandemic has seeped into work on a thematic level as well. One of Nayar's latest works is 'Old Smoke', a photo poem as a response to news stories andimagesduring thelockdown, expressed through poems and pen-and-ink sketches.ôI recently rendered a white wall with cow dung treatment on photoshop to question the white wall as a sign of hygiene and sanitation. I believe it's worth experimenting with every skill up your sleeve in these uncertain times,ö says Sellamuthu, who uses CAD drawings and digital fabrication to create prototypes before staging hand-painted pieces in a simulated gallery.A few artists have also started making use of everyday objects as painting tools. ôThough I now use digital tools such as my iPad and Apple Pencil, I also incorporate items such as dishwashing wire meshes and cycle tyres to create different textures,ö says Aishwarya Manivannan, artist and founder of Maisha Studio, Chennai.Manivannan says she began using these products due to the lack of access to art products during the intense lockdown, but continues to use them.ôThese tough times have taught me to use what I have and explore items and themes that were always around, but never focused on,ö adds Manivannan, who now encourages her young students to use products available around them as tools.
333
Students of the Sanskriti and Shamrao Kalmadi High School will now get a chance to access training materials, workshops, theatre and be a part of musical tours with 'Schools: Partners for Future (PASCH)'- an initiative of the German Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Goethe-institut. Both the schools on Wednesday signed an agreement with the German government to extend these opportunities to their students."The MoU was signed on August 12. The event was virtually attended by senior members of Goethe-institut, including the head of South Asia, Andrea Walter, and director, Miriam Bruns. PASCH is an initiative of the German Government & Goethe-institut where a select group of schools from across the world are chosen as partners after a rigorous evaluation process. The aim is to share best practices, learning and strengthen the education and cultural ties between German educational institutions and the students of the partner schools," a statement issued by Sanskriti Group of Schools stated. Students of the two schools can also avail of scholarships for studies in Germany. "We are confident that many of our students will benefit from this initiative," director of Sanskriti Group of Schools, Devyani Mungali, said. Director of Goethe-institut, Pune, Miriam Bruns, said that she was delighted with the new partnership.
334
Students of Sanskriti and Dr Shamarao Kalmadi High School will now get a chance to access training material, workshops, theatre and be in musical tours as part of 'Schools: Partners for Future (PASCH)'ù an initiative of the German Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Goethe-institut.Both the schools on Wednesday signed an agreement with the German government to extend these opportunities to their students.ôThe MoU was signed on August 12. The event was virtually attended by senior members of Goethe-institut, including the head of South Asia, Andrea Walter, and director, Miriam Bruns. PASCH is an initiative of the German Government & Goethe-institut where a select group of schools from across the world are chosen as partners after a rigorous evaluation process. The aim is to share best practices, learning and strengthen the educational and cultural ties between the German educational institutions and the pupils of the partner schools,ö a statement issued by Sanskriti Group of Schools read.Students of the two schools can also avail of scholarships for studies in Germany. ôWe are confident that many of our students will benefit from this initiative,ö director of Sanskriti Group of Schools, Devyani Mungali, said. Director of Goethe-institut, Pune, Miriam Bruns, said that she was delighted with the new partnership.
335
Germany has started implementing a new law that relaxes the visa rules for nurses, information technology (IT) specialists, workers with vocational training certificates and other technical jobs badly needed by Europe's richest country.

Under the new law, called Fachkraefteeinwanderungsgesetz (or 'Skilled Workers Immigration Law') and implemented since March, anyone who is qualified and speaks good German can get a six-months visa to look for a job. Anyone who has passed vocational training that meets German standards will be given a working visa, provided the worker has passed at least B1-level German language tests administered by the Goethe-institut.

German critics said the language requirement should be scrapped because it means a prospective worker must fork out a small fortune to be able to study German in a local Goethe-institut.

The new law also created a new agency to speed up the visa processing, which had previously taken up to six months. The goal now is three weeks.

Agency board member Daniel Terzenbach said workers from South America, the Balkan states and Asia, particularly Vietnam, Indonesia and the Philippines were of particular interest.

Germany lacks about 1.2 million skilled workers mainly in construction, health and nursing, gastronomy and IT sectors. The nursing branch has been pinpointed as the most critical sector because the elderly population is growing.

A survey jointly conducted by trade union Verdi and three associations of nursing agencies revealed that as of December 2019, more than 50,000 nurses were needed by German hospitals.

A study by the German Economic Institute has calculated that up to around 307,000 nurses and caregivers are need by 2035. It expects around 4.53 million people would be in need of care by 2060. The number of those age over 60 and above is steadily rising because of good medical care in Germany plus the low birth rate.

Digital industry lobby group Bitkom estimates that Germany currently lacks around 124,000 IT experts. 'We expect that foreign IT specialists can now be employed in a more simple and faster way,' said spokesperson Andreas Streim, adding his group has been seeking to scrap the German language requirement for the IT sector.
336
The Covid-19 outbreak brought many human activities to a standstill. Yet the crisis also had its positive aspects. Artistes used the three months locked-down period to indulge in creative activities.

Udan Fernando is one such artiste who, on arriving from Singapore, made use of his quarantined time to conceptualize and write a film script. Upon being tested Covid-19 negative, he has soon started work on his short film 'A Covid Honeymoon' which runs for 21 minutes.

'When a two-week honeymoon becomes a two-month ordeal' is the theme and the payoff line of Udan's short film. A preview of the film was held for the media recently.

The storyline of this short film revolves around a young couple who find their honeymoon jeopardized due to the Covid-19 pandemic. With their hard-earned money of 1000 dollars, a young Sri Lankan couple fly to Singapore for a two- week romantic honeymoon, with little or no idea of the impending Covid-19 outbreak. The deadly pandemic occurs during their honeymoon and a lockdown is imposed. The two-week honeymoon in Singapore eventually becomes a two-month ordeal with no flights to return to Sri Lanka and nowhere to stay. To add insult to injury they find that they have only 30 dollars in hand to survive in Singapore.

Speaking of how the story was conceptualized and put into paper, Udan Fernando said, "Having stayed three months in Singapore due to closure of airports during the Covid-19 lockdown, I finally found a seat in a special repatriation flight to Colombo. On the eve of my departure, I heard a story that hit me like a virus. This story preoccupied me throughout my two-week quarantine term in eastern Sri Lanka."

He added, "Amid the constant chatter of fellow quarantine-mates in a small dormitory, I sought refuge in a corner bed that became my working, thinking and dining space. I conceptualized an imaginative along the basic true experience and made a script. I launched the production of the film when I was released from quarentine. Thus 'A Covid Honeymoon' is a film born in a situation of crises."

The cast include, Xavier Kanishka Antoinette, Thilakshini Ratnayake and Chandana Prasad Suriyaarachchi. Director of Photography is Sameera Weerasekara. Udan Fernando has conceptualized, scripted and directed 'A Covid Honeymoon'. The film was presented to the public at the Goethe-institut Sri Lanka keeping with health and safety regulations and three screenings were held on July 28, 29 and 30.

The three screenings were fully reserved in prior and Goethe took steps to organize an additional screening at 7.15pm on July 30.A vibrant post screening discussion was followed with critics and the general audience. The producer of 'A Covid Honeymoon' said he is encouraged by the positive response, and is making arrangements with three media agencies in North America, Europe and Australia to have exclusive screening of the film in the US, Canada and countries in Europe and Australia to enable the audience there to access the film online.
337
Operation, Support and further development for paas platform based on azure red hat openshift (aro)

The Goethe-institut is looking for a contractor to take over operation, support and further development for the PaaS platform based on the Azure Red Hat OpenShift (ARO) product. The exact framework conditions, requirements and the job description can be found in the section "Scope of service". The PaaS platform is installed in Azure~s West Europe region. Version 4.3 of the OpenShift Container Platform is used.

This contract is divided into lots: no

Time limit for receipt of tenders or requests to participate: Date: 28/08/2020Local time: 12:00

Other activity: Bildung und Kultur

Major organization : Goethe-institut E. V. ZENTRALE

Address : Postal Address: Oskar-Von-Miller-Ring 18

Town: Mnchen
338
A THREE-PART musical by internationally renowned UCT composer, cellist, and cultural thinker Dr Thokozani Mhlambi will be virtually staged from the Baxter Theatre today.

Indlela ebheke e-Azania (A journey to Azania), the journey through music is based on a historical African legacy and will feature performers from Africa and Europe.

It tells the story of trading in Rhapta, the southern-most trading port of Azania in the 1st century AD. The people were great in stature, proud agriculturalists and innovators in terms of metal working science.

"This is a very important story about our African internationalism, which is important to tell at this time given the global movements such as #BlackLivesMatter. What people of African descent are saying all over the world is that they want to be seen and recognised, even in the content they view. The digital format of the concert allows people anywhere in the globe to check it out," said Mhlambi.

The people of Rhapta traded with the ships anchored on the bluffs of the city, who came from many parts of the world including Iran, Rome, India and Egypt. Ancient ships relied on the movements of the monsoons. These winds would then act as natural motor-power for steering the ships south and then reverse movement later in the year.

They came to Azania for gold, ivory, palm oil, rhino horns and iron bloom - items in abundance in south-east Africa. In return, the Africans would receive glass beads, copper, cloth and sometimes wine. The communities valued more the cattle that they traded with each other, significant in uniting families and building relationships.

The people responsible for the movement of such goods down from the area now called KwaZulu-Natal were known as "abahwebi" (traders), who had a responsibility to observe the protocols of royal families while still supplying the general population.

Esteemed craftsmen in metal, thunder-herding and music composition were well known and exerted considerable autonomy, testifying to the value of their talents and expertise, from the land of the Thonga,to the Highveld and right down the mountains to KwaZulu-Natal and eMampondweni.

This continued up to 700AD. By this time, Inanda (in KZN) had a considerable population of iron producers, who lived on the hilly slopes around the uMngeni River.

The first part of this musical work is Indlela, which covers the journey traversed by abahwebi to distant lands in the region. The second part is Rhapta, which remembers the city life of this trade port, as well as the strong communities surrounding it.

The third part is Kuumbi, which is about the cave which acted like a hotel, where sojourners would stay while conducting their business in the trade vicinity.

The musical is presented through the partnership of Afropolitan Explosiv, the Baxter Theatre, the Goethe-institut and the Re-Centring AfroAsia: Musical and Human Migrations in the Precolonial Period 700-1500AD project at UCT.
339
The Goethe-institut Bangladesh in partnership with HerStory Foundation will host a digital reading of The Bird Catcher by Fayesa Hasanat in Bangla and English on July 21 at 7:30pm on Zoom. The event is open to all upon registration.

The choice of book is motivated by exploring literature that deals with isolation, challenging events, and uncertainty. Set in Bangladesh and the United States, the eight stories in The Bird Catcher address gender expectations, familial love, and questions of identity and belonging.

The book offers wide-ranging variations on the theme of diasporic identity, intriguing glimpses into suppressed, fragmented, and resilient lives, and a meditation on the power and limitations of language.

Bangladeshi-American writer, Fayeza Hasanat, is a literary scholar who specialises in gender studies, translations studies, and literature of the British Empire and the South Asian diaspora. She teaches in the English Department of the University of Central Florida.
340
"Short films are exciting, innovative, entertaining and full of surprises," says the Goethe-institut Cyprus as it prepares a series of screenings. After Short Export, the Goethe-institut Cyprus presents Kurz.Film.Tour, a different selection of short films that have been nominated for or awarded the German Short Film Award. The programme will be presented on July 14 and 20 both at the Goethe-institut in Nicosia and online.

The physical screenings at Goethe will take place at FilmRaumGoethe -- the newly renovated events hall of the Goethe-institut in Nicosia -- in a relaxed atmosphere of café and cinema, in a well-ventilated space. At the same time, viewers can enjoy the films online at home.

"The German Short Film Award is the most important and highly endowed award for short films in Germany," explains Goethe. "It has been awarded to outstanding short film productions since 1956." The films are in various languages including dialogue in Kurdish, Spanish and Turkish, though all are subtitled in English.

The programme consists of the following films:

Wir sprechen heute noch Deutsch (We Still Speak German Today): A young man (co-director Miguel FerrÈíez) recites sentences from the integration course Living in Germany while standing in front of changing backgrounds of German representation abroad. By Clara Winter & Miguel FerrÈíez, 16 mins.

HÈµrst Du, Mutter? (Are You Listening, Mother?): A Kurdish woman is sentenced to six years house arrest in a Turkish village. However, her elder son cannot stop her from constantly crossing the invisible boundary of the shackles. By Tuna Kaptan, 20mins.

32-Rbit: Victor Orozco Ramirez animates disturbing and insane scenes from the Internet with ghostly, surreal images. A voice-over tells of the promises of the virtual parallel world and the sobering realisation that not everything can be undone with CTRL+Z. By Victor Orozco Ramirez, 8 mins.

Die letzten fÈ­nf Minuten der Welt (The Last Five Minutes of the World): The end of the world is imminent and instead of going to the supposedly safe bunker, a small, illustrious company arrives on a bench in front of a house to clear the air. By JÈ­rgen HeimÈ­ller, 8 mins.

Dorotchka: In a remote Siberian village where marriage is traditionally considered the highest happiness for women, lives 80-year-old Dorotchka. She is an archetypal babushka, always left alone. Sitting at the kitchen table, she reflects sharply and self-critically on love, remorse and loneliness. By Olga Delane, 20 mins.

Short German Films

To watch the films contact kultur-nikosia@goethe.de to reserve your seat in the hall or request the password to tune in from home. July 14 and 22. At Goethe-institut Nicosia. 8.30pm. Free. Tel: 22-674606

The post German shorts to be viewed at Goethe or at home appeared first on Cyprus Mail .
341
Goethe-institut Chennai has launched a series of online programmes to keep art and culture enthusiasts engaged during the lockdown.With fifty plus short films including Joachim Hecker Science Experiments, Max Planck Cinema Series and House of Little Scientists, the Science Film Festival Streaming Series will be going live until July 26.In collaboration with Filmgalerie 451, the Goethe-institut has also launched an online streaming programme called Goethe On Demand. It contains a fine selection of original German language films with English subtitles, and can be viewed free of charge at https://vimeo.com/showcase/goethe-on-demand till July 31.
342
The Delegation of German Industry and Commerce in Sri Lanka (AHK Sri Lanka), in cooperation with the Deutsche Gesellschaft fr Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) GmbH and Goethe-institut Sri Lanka, has coordinated and certified the 2nd 'AdA International Basic - Train-the-Trainers' course.

The course was conducted by ISO-certified trainer Edwin Lemke, from 24 to 29 February, thereby further supporting companies in Sri Lanka to adopt a more industry-driven vocational training approach and advancing TVET overall in Sri Lanka.

The training course was designed for trainers, mentors, as well as TVET teachers and HR and training managers, who are interested to obtain a certified qualification as an in-company trainer. A crucial element for successful on-the-job training is the qualification and ability of the trainer, as he or she is at the core of imparting relevant skills and knowledge to the trainees or staff learning a new profession. Trainers must be on solid footing, professionally and pedagogically, to inspire enthusiasm in young people and to ensure they learn the right skills for the job.

In Germany, the trainer qualification is ensured through the 'Regulation for Trainer Aptitude' (AEVO), and the relevant skills and knowledge are implemented via the so called 'AdA Training' (Ausbildung der Ausbilder - Train the Trainer). The assessment and issuing of the AdA certificates to successful trainers in Germany is done by the Chambers of Commerce and Industry (IHK). AHK Sri Lanka, as the official representatives of the German chambers in Sri Lanka, offers the AdA Training and examination, which is internationalised and based on standards set by the Association of German Chambers of Industry and Commerce (DIHK).

The 12 participants in the AdA training in February acquired basic knowledge of the core areas of Dual Vocational Training (industry-driven in-company training as practiced in Germany) and different learning styles, as well as the skills to design, prepare and conduct effective on-the-job training sessions - with the help of specific instruction techniques and methods to break to complex tasks - for their companies' trainees and new staff. The training was carried out by Edwin Lemke, an experienced ISO-certified trainer in this field, who makes use of an optimising and activating method mix. After the training, the participants had to pass a multiple-choice examination as well as a practical test, including an expert discussion with the AHK Sri Lanka AdA Examination Board. Only examinees who passed both exams receive the German certificate.

The training was well-received by participants from companies such as Dimo, Nikini, INSEE, Wurth, as well as participants from the Coastline Foundation and TVEC in Maldives.

AHK Sri Lanka, in cooperation with GIZ and trainer Edwin Lemke are currently working on an 'AdA Advanced' training, as a follow up course. The training will be conducted, most likely during the period September to November 2020, as a blended learning format, with online modules via webinar, as well as three days on-site training with Lemke in Sri Lanka.

The Delegation of German Industry and Commerce in Sri Lanka (AHK Sri Lanka) is part of the German Chamber Network abroad of more than 140 offices around the world. The Delegations of German Industry and Commerce represent the interests of German businesses in their partner countries. One interest of a fruitful and sustainable bilateral cooperation is vocational education and training, hence AHK Sri Lanka is actively working on expanding its activities - besides the already existing AdA Training, certification of DIMO's three-year Automobile Mechatronics Training and the VET Council - to support industry-driven in-company vocational training in Sri Lanka.
343
The Goethe-institut intends to conclude a contract for the maintenance and further development of its J2EE application "Check-out engine". The required JavaScript development is implemented as far as possible using Apache Wicket. The presentation is based on the responsive design approach. Twig and jQuery are used for template development. The check-out engine is the front end of the AG~s web shop and contains the entire process and presentation logic. The webshop handles sales of the language courses and examination products of the Goethe-instituts worldwide. In the final stage, it will sell offers from more than 90 countries in more than 50 languages. It works without its own persistent data storage. The service is provided in close cooperation with other software components of the client, such as an identity management system (internal name "KDF") and a SAP-based ERP solution (OSKA). The complete documentation of the check-out engine and its interaction with other systems can be found in Appendix 1 of the service description.

This contract is divided into lots: no

Time limit for receipt of tenders or requests to participate: Date: 22/06/2020Local time: 10:00

Other activity: Bildung und Kultur

Major organization : Goethe-institut E. V. ZENTRALE

Address : Postal Address: Oskar-Von-Miller-Ring 18

Town: Mnchen.
344
The Buhari regime's efforts to muzzle the press threaten to set Nigerian democracy back by decades

I was in Lagos chewing roasted corn a little past 6pm one evening in October 2019 when an Abuja - based journalist rang me to inform me of a meeting at the headquarters of the Nigeria Correctional Service (NCS). The authorities were going to use the media to discredit my latest investigation, and I would subsequently be arrested and prosecuted on trumped-up charges. Back in July, I'd voluntarily spent two weeks in detention -- five days in a police cell and eight as an inmate in Ikoyi Prison -- to track corruption in Nigeria's criminal justice system, beginning from the moment of arrest by the police to the point of release from prison. To experience the workings of the system in its raw state, I adopted the pseudonym Ojo Olajumoke and feigned an offence for which I was arrested and detained in police custody, arraigned in court and eventually remanded in prison.

I dismissed the phone call with a wave of the hand until exactly 9.41pm, when a WhatsApp message from a friend directed me to a tweet by @ AbdulMahmud01, who, I have to say, is a board member of the International Centre for Investigative Reporting (ICIR), which co-funded the story I had written with TheCable. Mahmud, relying on his sources, was sure I would be arrested. I made two more calls that night and it was clear I was in trouble. The first thing I did was to pull out of a Goethe-institut event in Lagos, where I was to join three other panellists in discussing the subject 'Fake or Fact: Disinformation and (New) Media in Nigeria'. Dr Chidi Odinkalu, the former chairman of the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC), kick-started the trending of a hashtag 'KeepFisayoSafe' that would eventually force government to back down on the planned arrest. The outrage that followed preceded -- and scuppered -- the arrest. Other journalists, though, were not that lucky. One of them, Agba Jalingo, was well into his detention before it became public knowledge.

In July 2019, the journalist had accused Ben Ayade, the governor of Cross River, a state in Nigeria's South-South, of diverting N500 million (about $1.4 million) released for the establishment of the Cross River State Microfinance Bank. He seemed to have good evidence, having consistently reported, through the years, about the establishment of the bank and its failure to take off eight months after the supposed release of the funds. Since his arrest in August last year, the Nigerian government has charged Jalingo with disturbance of public peace, cybercrime, terrorism and treason. Twice the court granted him bail, and twice the government denied him the opportunity to enjoy it. After almost a year of struggling to convince Nigerians that it was innocent of involvement in Jalingo's arrest, the Cross River State government finally officially took over his prosecution in February this year.

Omoyele Sowore, human rights activist and founder of online news agency Sahara Reporters, hadn't even kicked off his #RevolutionNow protests when the Department of State Services (DSS) picked him up at a private apartment in Lagos on 2 August, 2019 -- three days before the start of the #DaysOfRage. He was grilled in Abuja for days before the orders of a federal high court were sought for his detention. But after state security disobeyed two orders by the same court for Sowore's release on bail after months in detention, the tide started to turn against the government. On 24 December, three days after six US lawmakers wrote to the Nigerian Attorney-General to protest Sowore's continued detention, the government released him, disguising their action by simultaneously freeing Sambo Dasuki, the former National Security Adviser (NSA) who had been held since 2015 for alleged misappropriation of counterinsurgency funds.

Locally, the release was preceded by a landmark move: Punch, Nigeria's most widely read newspaper, published a weighty editorial announcing that all its titles would henceforth prefix President Muhammadu Buhari's name with his rank as a military dictator in the 80s, Major General, and refer to his administration as a regime, "until they purge themselves of their insufferable contempt for the rule of law". In all three instances, the most notable constant was the bad press that government was getting or would have got. Jalingo's Cross River Watch series projected the state government as corrupt, inept and unworthy of public trust. Sowore's #RevolutionNow protests would have spotlighted the deep seated economic maladministration and insecurity that have plagued the Buhari administration since inception. My investigative series unveiled the sham that is the administration of criminal justice in Nigeria; it was a dent in the image of the judiciary, the police, the prisons and the interior ministry altogether.

The irony of this media repression is that Buhari and the state governors of his party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), ascended to power via the polls on the back of dissent with the former ruling party and championed by the media; the same group suddenly cannot stomach or overlook unflattering media coverage. It must irk them deeply that despite the repression, these journalists are not only refusing to cave in, they're waxing strong. Their persecution appears to be further fuelling their drive rather than dampening it. The grace with which Jalingo has handled his trial belies the length of his incarceration. His broad smiles, loud cheers to supporters and generally boisterous demeanour on court days do not in any way suggest he's spent six months in prison. Four weeks after the government tried to arrest me for investigating the police, prisons and courts undercover, I embarked on another undercover mission -- this time to a government-run psychiatric hospital, the Federal Neuropsychiatric Hospital in Lagos, where admission conditions are undignified. I was their patient for three weeks, including 10 straight days on ward admission.

The previous arrest threat didn't stop me and, as a matter of fact, I'm currently on my second investigation since that saga. Sowore, meanwhile, remains as bullheaded as he always was. In early February, when I met him in Abuja at the makeshift home he's currently restricted to due to a clause in his bail conditions barring him from travelling out of Nigeria's federal capital, he insisted his ongoing face-off with the state would be a "fight to the finish". "I don't care that I cannot travel out of Abuja; that's their problem, not mine," he told me confidently. "There's no need to run away. We have to stay and fight this battle until the very end." Repeated efforts to muzzle the press under the Buhari regime threaten to set Nigerian democracy back by decades. However, just like it was with every oppressive military administration of the past, this government will be outlasted by the media -- because, as we have seen, the current targets of media oppression are on their crusade for the long haul.
345
More online entertainment is reaching homes around the island and beyond as the Goethe-institut Zypern, in collaboration with AG Kurzfilm, launch this year's programme of Short Export. On Friday and Sunday at 8pm, a worldwide audience will have the opportunity to watch the official Short Export 2020 programme -- a selection of six outstanding current German short films -- online and for free.

"It is the 15th year now that the Short Export -- Made in Germany programme travels the world with a selection of German short films," organisers said. Given the current situation with the coronavirus, this year the screenings will take place online.

Short Export 2020 presents six current films, selected from almost 600 German submissions, which illustrate the artistic, stylistic and thematic diversity of German short film making. In a humorous and unconventional manner, the films deal with home, self-optimisation, strong women and weak men.

The films:

Ascona: A place that appears to have fallen out of time, that has remained unchanged since the 1950s. A miniature golf course becomes an analogy for society. Julius Dommer Germany 2019 Documentary 15'êÖIn German

Uzi / ÏúÏ¸Òï: A young woman leaves home and sets off to see the world. But the parent-daughter relationship is so strong that, in the end, these ties become destructive. Dina Velikovskaya Germany, Russia 2019 Animation 7' No Dialogue

Hot Dog

The Proband: Unemployed Dominique becomes a test subject in a clinic to finance the shared dream of a house in the countryside with his girlfriend Janine. A struggle for money and pride ensues as Dominique's body slowly reaches its limits. Hannes Schilling Germany 2019 Fiction 30' In German

Facelift: The greatest influencer ever? Your own subconscious mind! A man introduces us to his surreal philosophy while his head develops a life of its own. Jan Riesenbeck, Dennis Stein-Schomburg Germany 2019 Experimental Fiction 7' In English

The Ink Doesn't Dry: Two friends, young German Muslim girls, share a flat. They go swimming together, observe the culture around them, the church, dating, relationships and each other. The film follows their paths as one of them gets to know someone, while the other goes on a journey of self-discovery. Felix Herrmann Germany 2019 Experimental Fiction 15' In German / English

Hot Dog: Hannah is in a love-hate relationship with her vagina. She tells the story of how her sexuality has changed over time. Like that moment when she discovered the vibration function on her PlayStation controller. Marleen Valien, Alma Buddecke Germany 2019 Fiction 8' In English

Short Export -- Made in Germany

Online short film screenings. May 8 and 10. 8pm. https://vimeo.com/404914158 . In English and German dialogue. German, English and French subtitles. For the password please contact kultur-nikosia@goethe.de Tel:22-674606

The post Short Export brings short German films to the fore this week appeared first on Cyprus Mail .
346
Prisca Sam-Duru

... says some books have gone out of circulation after winning prizes

Anambra State-born Ndidi Dorothy Chiazor-Enenmor is an award-winning author of many children's books. Married with four children, Chiazor-Enenmor holds a Bachelor of Arts degree from the University of Nigeria, Nsukka and a Post Graduate Diploma in English from the University of Lagos. She recorded a major feat in her creative writing career last year when her book, "A Hero's Welcome" made the longlist of The Nigeria Prize for Literature, 2019 sponsored by Nigeria LNG. This brilliant writer shares more in this interview with Vanguard's Arts & Reviews:

Where did you start your education?

I did Primary 1 and 2 in my hometown before I went to Aba to live with my sister. I attended Hospital Road Primary School Aba, formerly St. Michael's school when it was being run by the CMS. Interestingly, this school has the honour of being the place the great Chinua Achebe wrote his entrance examination to Government College Umuahia. So, when the government took over schools, it became Hospital Road Primary School. But now, I think the church has taken it over again. That's the St. Michael's Anglican Cathedral, Aba.

I run an education consultancy outfit in Lagos/I represent colleges in Canada. I recruit students from Nigeria to study in Canada.

When did you develop a passion for writing?

Writing is a passion ignited in me at an early age. I grew up in Aba, in-home full of books. I was seven years old when my eldest sister got married. Shortly after her marriage, she brought me to live with her. Her husband, Geo Ezeaba of blessed memory was a lawyer. He was a voracious reader; therefore, the house was stocked with books; beautiful books covering all subjects. There were novels, biographies, encyclopedias, memoirs, autobiographies, books on geography, history - just name it. I read and read... and that helped me a lot in school. I had sterling performances in primary and secondary schools and through the university.

I attended St. Catharine's Girls Secondary School, Nkwerre, Imo State. Established in 1955, St. Catharine's was one of the best schools in the Eastern region. While there, my love for reading was boosted by the rich collection of storybooks in the school library. I read a lot of the Enid Blyton series in the library. The librarian then knew me and admired me. I will borrow books and return them even before the last due date because I read them very fast and wanted to borrow more.

Also, my mother told me a lot of folk stories; not only my mother but other members of the extended family. Whenever I was in my hometown for the holidays, I enjoyed the tales told under the moonlight. Folktales were the norms then. Usually, after dinner, families sat around and told stories. Playmates also exchanged stories with each other. I had a lot of cousins and while growing up, we enjoyed this beautiful norm together. I could say that these are the things that influenced me and geared me towards writing.

So far, how many books have you published?

My first children's book was published in 2006 while I was still working at the British Council, Lagos. I was previously selected and sponsored by the British Council to attend the London Book Fair in 2003. After I came back from the book fair, I wrote an article entitled, 'Books, Books Everywhere'. It was published in 'InfoNews', the British Council Global Magazine.

Before then, I had written several short stories and poems. Some of them were published in the defunct TNT and Diet newspapers where I had brief stints with journalism as a reporter and features writer respectively.

My short story 'Oso Ochu' featured in "Wings of Dawn", an anthology of works by WRITA (Women Writers of Nigeria), published by British Council, Lagos.

I can recall my first poem, 'Departure' which I wrote in my final year in the university. I posted it on the notice board of our department and my classmates wrote comments on it. I was thrilled, even though some of the comments were very critical. I kept that poem for a long time. I showed it to my siblings and other family members. Their encouraging words were very exciting to me.

After my first book, I went ahead with more children's books; "One Little Mosquito" (2008), "Stories of our Land" (2011) and others. "One Little Mosquito" won the ANA/Atiku Abubakar Prize for Children's Literature (2009).

In 2017, I wrote a picture book, "Mina and the Birthday Dress". It was part of the Book Dash project in Johannesburg. There were selected children's books and authors from several countries in Africa who took part in the project. We were sponsored by the Goethe-institut, Nigeria after a rigorous selection process.

Does it look like you've concentrated only on children's literature?

True, I have a lot of children's books to my credit. But my debut novel "If They Tell the Story", was published early this year. The book has domestic violence, depression and societal culpability as major highlights.

Your book, 'A Hero's Welcome' made The Nigeria Prize for Literature 2019 longlist. What informed your writing of the book?

"A Hero's Welcome" was borne out of my desire to promote the speaking of our indigenous languages. Like some of us are aware, our local languages have been relegated. While English remains the official language, there is no reason why we should not speak our languages to our children.

Did you have the Prize or any other in mind while writing the book?

The wide acceptability of "A Hero's Welcome" and my other books is far more important to me than any prize. Of course, like every writer, it is natural to desire to win prizes, but it becomes pathetic when a writer does not look beyond the prize. I can tell you that there are some books that have gone out of circulation after they had won a prize. That goes to show that the writer only wrote for the prize and after the whole euphoria of prize-winning, you don't get a copy of the book to buy anywhere. It is very pathetic.

How has making NLNG Literature Prize Longlist impacted on your creative writing?

I have been overwhelmed by the reception accorded "A Hero's Welcome". Many schools have adopted it for their book clubs and other book reading projects. A headteacher here in Lagos called me and pleaded that I adapt it for drama. There are so many things I am working around with the book. I am in talks with some organisations to hold a major programme annually to mark the International Mother Tongue Day which is commemorated in February. "A Hero's Welcome" will be a handy tool for that. Being longlisted in the 2019 NLNG/Nigeria Literature Prize was one of the high points in my writing career. It brought a lot of recognition to me and I don't take that for granted.

Are there other projects through which you contribute towards improving our reading culture?

I have held similar programmes in the past, in collaboration with the Goethe-institut, Nigeria. Project Read Aloud and Tell (PRAAT) was one of them. The first edition was held many years ago in the old Alliance Francaise premises in Lagos. So, apart from writing, these are the kind of projects I have been involved with; programmes that promote reading and learning outside the classroom. Various schools in Lagos and Ogun states have participated in them. We have also held events to mark Children's Book Week, in collaboration with the Lagos State Library Board.

What inspires you as a writer?

I am inspired by things that happen around me; things that happen in society as well as some personal experiences.

What's your assessment of the literary industry?

The writing industry in Nigeria has gone through a lot of metamorphoses. There is a lot of dynamism, which is good. It is an ever-evolving industry.

What challenges do you have as a writer?

Sponsorship is always a major stumbling block but I don't give up because I enjoy what I do. It will be a welcome development for corporate organisations to sponsor programmes that enhance our children's creative abilities.
347
Organisers of the Henrike Grohs Art Award have announced three finalists of the competition for 2020 edition. They include; Akwasi Bediako Afrane (Ghana), Jackie Karuti (Kenya) and Sabelo Mlangeni (South Africa).

The finalists were selected by a jury consisting of Paula Nascimento (Architect and Independent Curator, Angola), Gabi Ngcobo (Curator and Educator, South Africa), and Sarah Rifky (Writer and Curator, Egypt).

Also read: Lagos Fringe Festival comes with exciting shows

The Henrike Grohs Art Award is a roving biennial art prize conceived by the Goethe-institut and the Grohs family in memory of the former Head of Goethe-institut in Abidjan, Henrike Grohs. The prize is awarded biennially to an artist or arts collective living and working on the African continent, and practising in the field of visual arts.

The organisers disclosed that "While each iteration of the award ceremony is celebrated at a different biennale or major art event on the continent, due to the current Covid-19 pandemic, the Henrike Grohs Art Award has decided to announce the 2020 winner through a different platform.

We will share this new format and the date of the winner announcement in the coming weeks."

The winner will receive a cash prize of 20.000?, with 10.000? towards the production of a publication on the winner's work, while two artists will be selected as runners up and will be awarded a cash prize of 5.000? each.

Akwasi Bediako Afrane, a Ghanaian artist living and working in Kumasi, Ghana, through his works, explores the idea of augmentation and extensions between technological gadgets and humans. He works with discarded electronic gadgets which he refers to as "amputees". He refashions and repurposes these amputees into machines and microorganisms he describes as 'TRONS'. These 'TRONS', become potential platforms and media for reflection, engagement and interactions. "His 'TRONS', stripped bare of their familiar housing become mechanical gizmos subsumed with the consciousness of previous owners of these gadgets and himself."

An artist based in Nairobi, Kenya, Jackie Karuti's practice is largely experimental and employs the use of new media through drawings, video, installations and performance art. Her work is founded on ideas around knowledge production & accessibility as well as the depths of possibility enabled by radical imagination. Karuti is an alumnus of Àsìko, a roaming Pan African art school established by the late Bisi Silva, designed to redress the frequently outdated or non-existent artistic and curatorial curricula at tertiary institutions across Africa. Karuti's work has been exhibited widely most recently in 2019 at The Lofoten International Art Festival in Svolvær, Norway as well as in 2018 at the Dak'Art Biennial in Dakar, Senegal. Other projects that respond to her practice include programming the Out- Film Festival in Nairobi 2016-2018 and her online workspace, 'I've been working on some MAGIC'.

Working mainly in a black and white format, Sabelo Mlangeni's photographs have focused on capturing the intimate, everyday moments of communities in contemporary South Africa. Born in 1980 in Driefontein near Wakkerstroom in Mpumalanga, Mlangeni moved to Johannesburg in 2001 where he joined the Market Photo Workshop, graduating in 2004. Since then, his work has been widely exhibited locally and internationally.
348
Reception and guard service for the headquarters of the Goethe-institut

- The service of the security service includes all 7 floors of the building, as well as the associated outdoor area. The services to be commissioned serve to protect people, the property and property. - The reception service includes the reception of guests, visitors or seminar participants. Further information can be found in Appendix A1 Service Description.

This contract is divided into lots: no

Time limit for receipt of tenders or requests to participate: Date: 26/05/2020Local time: 12:00

Other activity: Bildung un Kultur

Major organization : Goethe-institut E.V. ZENTRALE

Address : Postal Address: Oskar-Von-Miller-Ring 18

Town: Mnchen

Postal Code: 80333

Country :Germany.
349
Production, Delivery, Storage and transport of the art installation "vanishing wall" (set back)

This contract is divided into lots: yes

Time limit for receipt of tenders or requests to participate: Date: 29/04/2020Local time: 12:00

Other activity: Bildung, Kultur

Major organization : Goethe-institut E. V. ZENTRALE

Address : Postal Addres.
350
Contract notice: Digital activation promotion

This contract is divided into lots: no

Time limit for receipt of tenders or requests to participate: Date: 06/05/2020Local time: 09:00

Conditions for opening tenders Date: 06/05/2020Local time: 09:00

Other activity: Education and culture

Major organization : Goethe-institut E.V. ZENTRALE

Address : Postal Address: Oskar-Von-Miller-Ring 18

Town: Munich
351
Framework contract: Advanced training, Coaching, Leadership and digitization at the Goethe-institut

Conducting face-to-face seminars and blended learning formats for employees of the Goethe-institut. For more information, see Appendix A: Service description.

This contract is divided into lots: yes

Time limit for receipt of tenders or requests to participate: Date: 21/04/2020Local time: 14:00

Other activity: Bildung und Kultur

Major organization : Goethe-institut E. V. ZENTRALE

Address : Postal Address: Oskar-Von-Miller-Ring 18

Town: Mnchen
352
The Chennai Photo Biennale (CPB) Foundation is out with a series of virtual guided tours in collaboration with Biennale f'r aktuelle Fotografie, Germany."We had a recent opportunity to attend the Biennale f'r aktuelle Fotografie in Germany as part of the Goethe-institut South Asian Photography Visitor Program. It is curated by (British writer, curator, artist and teacher) David Campany. This year's theme is 'The Lives and Loves of Images'. In view of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Biennale's shows were closed, but are now accessible online on www.biennalefotografie.de/en," says Shuchi Kapoor of CPB Foundation.The tours, starting at 6pm on April 9, will begin with the show 'Between Art and Commerce' at Port 25 led by Yasmin Meinicke (Biennale Managing Director), Kim Behm, (Curator, Port 25) and exhibiting artist Daniel Stier.
353
Full service delivery for an artistic installation

This contract is divided into lots: no

Time limit for receipt of tenders or requests to participate: Date: 09/04/2020Local time: 09:00

Conditions for opening tenders Date: 09/04/2020Local time: 09:00

Other activity: Education and culture

Major organization : Goethe-institut E.V. - ZENTRALE

Address : Postal Address: Oskar-Von-Miller-Ring 18

Town: Mnchen.
354
Framework contract for general planning and consulting services

This contract is divided into lots: no

Time limit for receipt of tenders or requests to participate: Date: 03/04/2020Local time: 14:00

Conditions for opening tenders Date: 06/04/2020Local time: 10:00

Other activity: Education and Culture

Major organization : Goethe-institut E.V. ZENTRALE

Address : Postal Address: Oskar-Von-Miller-Ring 18

Town: Mnchen
355
Framework contract: Advanced training, Coaching, Leadership and digitization at the Goethe-institut

Conducting face-to-face seminars and blended learning formats for employees of the Goethe-institut. For more information, see Appendix A: Service description.

This contract is divided into lots: yes

Time limit for receipt of tenders or requests to participate: Date: 21/04/2020Local time: 14:00

Other activity: Bildung und Kultur

Major organization : Goethe-institut E. V. ZENTRALE

Address : Postal Address: Oskar-Von-Miller-Ring 18

Town: Mnchen.
356
The Namibia Scientific Society and the Goethe - Institute Namibia has announced that their offices will be closed for public for the next 30 days.

The decision came after the President of Namibia issued a directive of banning mass gathering for 30 days due to the spread of coronavirus.

In their separate statements issued to Nampa on Wednesday, Goethe - Institute noted that following the recent decisions by the Ministry of Education, Arts and Culture, their offices will be closed until April 13th 2020. 'During this period there will be no events taking place, the library is closed and language courses will shift to online teaching' the statement read.

The Namibian Scientific Society also alluded that they will follow official advice to close libraries and cancel meetings and gatherings for the next thirty days.

It was also added that all public lectures will not take place from now on until Easter and the Library and Archive will no longer be accessible.

Both institutions have urged members and staff to stay healthy.
357
 Pakistan National Council of the Arts (PNCA) Thursday signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Goethe-institut Karachi here at PNCA to collaborate on programs for promotion of art and cultural education.

The MoU has been signed between Dr. Fouzia Saeed, DG PNCA and Stefan Winkler, Director Goethe-institut Karachi that will allow to collaborate on programs of mutual interest to benefit both organizations that share a common mandate of promotion of art , culture and transmission of knowledge and cultural development.

The main aspect of this kind of cooperation is to open new horizons for younger generation to learn about the power of cultural information with correct perception. PNCA, after placement under the administrative control of National History and Literary Heritage Division, has been trying to explore new avenues to engage youth in its cultural endeavors.

During her remarks after the signing ceremony, Dr. Fouzia Saeed, Director General PNCA said that such MoUs paved the way to create international cultural understanding and further enhancing working relationship among similar cultural organizations.

She also highlighted the role of Shafqat Mehmood, Federal Minister for National History and Literary Heritage Division for his keen to promote the international cultural exchange to portray the true image of Pakistan and its centuries old cultural traditions.

For achieving the common goals Goethe-institut will conduct artistic activities in the form of live musical performances, lectures, workshops, presentation and related cultural and educational activities for the promotion of international cultural understanding among masses in Pakistan whereas PNCA will provide venue, technical and professional help for holding such cultural activities in Islamabad.

As a first step of mutual cultural cooperation Goethe-institut Karachi brought Franz Schubert's Winterreise to PNCA today, a Classical Music and Contemporary Dance Performance by the German group who was on tour to Pakistan.

They had their first performance in Lahore, in private International School, their second performance was at PNCA Islamabad and they will have their final stop in Karachi where they will perform in National Academy of Performing Arts on 13th March.

Andreas Heise's Winterreise is a unique, interpretation of Schubert's work. Besides the usual duo combination of voice and piano, he is adding the element of dance. The choreography creates a dramaturgical triangle that emphasizes the music, removes cultural barriers and allows the performance to be highly emotional and physical.
358
 The great 'Winter Journey' (Winterreise) by Franz Schubert stopped over at the Pakistan National Council of the Arts (PNCA) in the federal capital on Thursday.

On the second leg of its three-part journey through the country, the classical music and contemporary dance performance of Austrian composer Schubert's song cycle and Wilhelm Muller's poetic tales of forbidden love - as interpreted by Andreas Heise's performance group left many in the audience teary-eyed.

Heise's interpretation of Winterreise is unique. Besides the usual combination of vocals signing Muller's poems and a pianist playing Schubert's melodies, Heise has added the visual and evocative element of contemporary dance.

The choreography helps create a dramaturgical triangle filled with passion and intensity which oozes off the stage and impacts an audience which may not be as well versed with Muller or Schubert's work.

It created a truly special performance art which is not only seen and heard but has to be experienced - much like the emotions contained in Muller's words and Schubert's notes.

Agreement

The performance was significant in not only in how a major Austrian-German cultural show was being presented in Pakistan, but it also celebrated the signing of a memorandum of understanding (MoU) between the PNCA and Goethe-institut Karachi.

The agreement was signed ahead of the performance by PNCA Director-General Dr Fouzia Saeed and Goethe-institut Director Stefan Winkler.

Under the agreement, the two cultural centres will collaborate on programmes of mutual interest and understanding to benefit both organizations in the fields of art, culture, cultural education, dissemination of related information including the transmission of knowledge and cultural development.

Speaking on the occasion, Dr Saeed said that they want to collaborate with organizations which are supportive and helpful for the promotion of art and culture in Pakistan and abroad.

She hoped that the MoUs will pave the way for creating international cultural understanding and further enhancing the working relationship amongst similar cultural organizations.

To achieve common goals, she said that the Goethe-institut will conduct artistic activities in the form of live musical performances, lectures, workshops, presentation and related cultural and educational activities for the promotion of international cultural understanding among the masses in Pakistan whereas PNCA will provide the venue, technical and professional help for holding such cultural activities in Islamabad.
359
 Full service delivery for an artistic installation

This contract is divided into lots: no

Time limit for receipt of tenders or requests to participate: Date: 09/04/2020Local time: 09:00

Conditions for opening tenders Date: 09/04/2020Local time: 09:00

Other activity: Education and culture

Major organization : Goethe-institut E.V. - ZENTRALE

Address : Postal Address: Oskar-Von-Miller-Ring 18

Town: Mnchen

Postal Code: 80333

Country :Germany.
360
To promote and preserve documentaries, an event, DocedgeKolkata, Asian Forum for Documentary, is being hosted by Documentary Resource Initiative (DRI) in association with Goethe-institut/Max Mueller Bhavan, Kolkata. The event aims to bring together cross-cultural storytellers to spread human knowledge through aesthetically inspired reality films that are free of commercial compulsions. For it's 2020 edition, the event will host filmmakers, editors, distributors, forum/institutions, broadcasters, foundations and participants from about 25 countries. Apart from workshops, masterclasses, talks, presentations, narrative and visual labs and one-on-one sessions, the event will screen six award-winning documentaries as well. The docus include Honeyland, The Look Of Silence, For Sama, Our Time Machine, Immortal and The Cave.
361
Sharjah Museums Authority (SMA) shone again on the world stage after winning the 'Best Cultural Collaboration Award' for its innovative Sawa Museums Academy programme, during the Leading Cultural Destinations Awards (LCD) on March 4 in Berlin.

Dubbed 'Oscars For Museums' by The New York Times, LCD Berlin - a unique partnership between Leading Culture Destinations and visitBerlin - recognises exceptional contributions of leading culture destinations from across the globe, to cultural life.

This year's edition held outside of London for the first time, featured 18 awards in five categories including Leading Culture Destinations of the Year, New Culture Destinations of the Year, Soft Power Destinations of the Year, Climate Smart Award and the Avis Travellers' Awards, as well as a new award for 2020, Best Cultural Initiative: Bridging Borders.

The ceremony saw the participation of 50 top cultural destinations from 26 countries including Austria, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, Denmark, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, India, Italy, Lithuania, Mexico, Morocco, Norway, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, South Africa, Spain, Switzerland, Togo, the UAE, UK and USA.

Based on the multicultural approach in teaching museology of its Sawa Museums Academy, SMA won the award under Soft Power Destination of the Year category, outrunning Sisters in Liberty - Opera di Santa Croce and Ellis Island National Museum of Immigration (Santa Croce, Italy / New York) and 'Ottawa Art Gallery', a visual arts institution in Canada.

Receiving the award, Manal Ataya, director-general of SMA attributed the success of their first ever transcultural programme in the region, SAWA (which means 'together' in Arabic) to its uniqueness and to the great efforts of those behind it between Sharjah and Germany.

"We are honoured to receive this award that recognises the commitment of Sharjah Museums Authority and our partners in Germany over the past few years to design and implement a programme that makes a positive impact on future museum leaders to thrive in multicultural environments and prepare them to tackle global challenges," said Ataya.

She noted that SAWA Museums Academy is a running collaboration between SMA and the Goethe-institut Gulf Region, the University of Applied Sciences (HTW Berlin), and the Staatliche Museen Berlin- Stiftung PreuBischer Kulturbesitz and with sponsorship from Volkswagen Stiftung.

"This unique programme, which was launched in 2015, is dedicated to the exchange of ideas between young Arab and German professionals through hands-on experiences in museology, and also to promote intercultural dialogue by allowing students to learn from and with each other," Ataya added.

Winners were announced by an international jury comprising high profile figures including Matthew Anderson, European culture editor for The New York Times; Helena Egan, tourism and place-making specialist; Dr Martin Heller, cultural advocate and arts patron; Oliver Jahn, editor-in-chief, AD Architectural Digest; Dr Thierry Morel, director, curator-at-large and board member of the Hermitage Foundation; artist Ahmet Out; and Salma Tuqan, deputy director of the Delfina Foundation.

This is SMA's second international award having first received an award in November 2019 for its first of its kind academic programme in the region 'Sawa'. 
362
 Production, Delivery, Storage and transport of the art installation "vanishing wall"

Manufacturing, delivery, storage and transportation of the vanishing wall. For details, please refer to the service description.

This contract is divided into lots: yes

Time limit for receipt of tenders or requests to participate: Date: 30/03/2020Local time: 12:00

Other activity: Bildung, Kultur

Major organization : Goethe-institut E. V. ZENTRALE

Address : Postal Address: Oskar-Von-Miller-Ring 18

Town: Mnchen
363
Goethe-institut Bangladesh, in cooperation with the International Film Initiative of Bangladesh (IFIB), organised the screening of the film title The Cloud Boat (Kalo Megher Vela), directed by filmmaker Mrittika Goon on at Goethe-institut Bangladesh auditorium in the capital's Dhanmondi area recently.

Lubna Sharmin, representative of the International Film Initiative of Bangladesh (IFIB) introduced the filmmaker Mrittika Goon, along with the moderator of the evening Q&A discussion session; film critic and journalist Sadia Khalid to the audience.

While sharing her experience on her film The Cloud Boat (Kalo Megher Vela) making, filmmaker Mrittika Goon, during the Q&A discussion session said, "Kalo Megher Vela is a philosophical fiction and an adaptation of poet Nirmalendu Goon's novel of the same title. I wanted to show the chaotic aspects of the city life through protagonist Dukhu's struggling slam life. In order to escape the abuse of his stepfather, Dhuku flees the city and takes asylum to the nature, leaving behind his beloved mother and there he finds his life philosophy; that the path to freedom is blocked by emotional attachments - in order to listen to the call of the soul; one must release themselves from the bondage of love."

Synopsis of film The Cloud Boat (Kalo Megher Vela):

The Cloud Boat (Kalo Megher Vela) is a Bangla film directed by Mrittika Goon and an adaptation of poet Nirmalendu Goon's novel of the same title. Protagonist Dukhu: a child who lost his father in his early age. The movie follows the struggles of Dhuku, a child who lives at a railway station. Dukhu's life in a railway station of Dhaka is a continuity of struggle: physical and emotional. In order to escape the abuse of his stepfather, Dhuku flees the city, leaving behind his beloved mother. He disguises himself as an orphan and begins working for a family in a remote village. There he encounters a sage who teaches him that the path to freedom is blocked by emotional attachments - in order to listen to the call of the soul; one must release themselves from the bondage of love. Dukhu is inspired by the sage's words and begins a journey into the unknown, beyond all things material and away from the love for his own mother.

Mrittika Goon was born in Mymensing. Her father's name is Nirmalendu Goon (poet) and mother's name is Neera Lahiry (doctor). She passed her childhood in old Dhaka. She grew in a cultural family with her grandmother (Roma Lahiry) who was a professor of Sangskrit and grandfather (Shibprosonno Lahiry). She completed BSc in Computer Science and Masters in Business Administration from North South University.

She started writing poem when she was eight years old. She wrote features regularly on FNL and Purple Magazine. Than introduce herself as a poet on regular newspaper. She published three poetry book, name Aamar Akashe Bristi (Rain in My Sky Line), Kali Makha Rode (the Sunlight is Painted Black) and Nokhhotro Ghash (The Solar Grass) and a story book The Butterfly Named Titly. She works at several sectors of media. Adopting true facts she directed telefilm Mirajul and also directed many more fictions for TV channels. Film Kalo Meger Vela is funded by Bangladesh Govt. She was executive producer of drama serial Patal Purir Rajkonna, India- Bangladesh combindly produced drama serial Sahittey Epar Opar and so more. She worked in branding of film Aamar Achey Jol, Aamar Bondu Rashed, Mrittika Maya, 9 No Bipod Sonket, Daruchini Dwip, etc. She worked as the coordinator of Sera Kontho, Lux-Channel i Superstar, Khudey Gaanraj, Sur Doriya Epar Opar, Rupchanada Hari Korai Rannar Lorai, etc. She is working in TV media for long time. She works at Channel i as its Brand and Communication Manager.
364
The Goethe-institut in partnership with HerStory Foundation hosted a pop-up of the Sister Library a travelling feminist library by indigenous artist Aqui Thami at the library of Goethe-institut in the capital's Dhanmondi area from February 12 to 15.

During this time several interventions took place. The Sister Library, based in Mumbai, is the first community-run feminist library in the South-Asia. The visiting collection comprised of 100 books written by women from Nepal, India, Pakistan and Bangladesh.

"The Sister Library is a safe space to celebrate women and be your true self, you are not asked to sit in a certain way or behave in a certain way. We read one of the most important works that have come from South Asia. It has shaped the feminist movement in the region and world over. It's really special to read it in a community in Bangladesh, it is very different to reading alone it's always nice to come together and talk it over. It was such a special moment," said Aqui Thami.

To host the visiting books, the Goethe-institut transformed one of the library shelves into a local chapter of the signature fluorescent pink Sister Library. On February 12, Aqui Thami led a collective reading of the iconic sci-fi short story by Rokeya Shakawat Hosein, Sultana's Dream. "What is more important than imagining what Sultana's Dream would be like today, is realising the dream of 1905. Women are still suffering injustice; there is rape, and female infanticide. There is a lot of work to be done," Aqui Thami also said.

On February 14, the Sister Library hosted a bi-lingual reading of Neelima Ibrahim's A War Heroine, I Speak on the pink carpet of the library. A small group of visitors read from the Birangona testimonies collected by the activist and shared their reflections on the text.

The final event of the Sister Library visit to Dhaka was the 'ZINE WITH US' workshop on February 15 during which participants were instructed to collectively create a zine. A zine is a hand-made, self-published, self-distributed publication which questions the status quo. The topic of the zine created was 'Silencing Female Voices in Bangladesh.' Once participants created their contributions, they were collected, copied and handed-out to the zine-makers.

Powered by female excellence - it is a space to celebrate female creativity. The library holds one thousand works of women writers, artists and zine makers. It is an evolving and generative artwork that engages with an in-depth reflection on the visual and reading cultures of our times. The goal of the project is to bring together readers, to explore literary contributions, showcase artistic quality and celebrate women in the creative world as well as to foster interests and understanding of the accomplishments of female writers and artists.

Founded by Aqui Thami, an indigenous artist based Mummbai, the Sister Library is the first community-owned feminist library in South Asia. Centred in the culture of DIY, self-publishing and guerrilla poster making, she believes in creating art that is grounded in the act of 'doing' and addresses political/ social issues.

The core of her art practice is healing as she works with experiences of marginalisation and resilience, her own and the people she works in collaboration with.
365
Local rice wine or "tapuey", including the search of a connoisseur or wine expert, will highlight the third staging of the "Ipitik" Festival during the culmination of the 25th Panagbenga or Baguio Flower Festival late March at the Rose Garden of the Burnham Park here.

The week-long festivity which comes nine years after the last one at the same venue will highlight at least 10 events in what is now considered as one of the arts havens, a creative city for folk arts and crafts, the Rose Garden.

Artist organizer Ferdie Balanag in staging this year's Ipitik said: 'We believe access to art and culture should go beyond those already active in the arts and cultural community.'

He added that the festivity 'intend(s) to produce a cultural and arts festival that will inspire community involvement that is total and not exclusive.'

Kawayan de Guia, son of National Artist for Film "Kidlat Tahimik" and also an installation artist and co-organizer of the event added: 'The artists, as vehicles for the perpetuation of culture, will come to collaborate in all the forms of art such as visual, dance, film, theater, music, literature, installation... to name a few. Both young and old will participate in this event, in the spirit of passing down traditional knowledge and cultural values to the young.'

Ipitik, which starts a drink in the Cordillera when one opens a bottle and offers a prayer to the gods, is tentatively scheduled on March 28 until April 5, said Balanag.

The dates coincide with the busiest week of the Panagbenga, which was staged a month late because of the 2019 coronavirus disease (Covid-19) scare that prompted local officials to have the dates moved to avoid crowds.

The highlight will be the local wine-tasting where the best-brewed tapuey will be adjudged.

Balanag said the master tapuey brewer search is the 'carrier activity of the Ipitik Festival, rice wine brewers from the different provinces of the Cordilleras join together to give our valued judges a taste of the different brews of tapuey, choosing the winner among the entries.'

He added the best 'brewer shall be given the city's stamp of quality and his brew will be provided with assistance for business mentorship and production, bottling, branding, marketing and sustaining.'

Isikias Picpican, an anthropologist and local historian, said: 'the Ipitik Festival recognizes the winemaking skills of the Cordilleran. Each village in the Cordillera has an ingenious way of preparing the tapuey. This event is not only a tribute to the wine-makers but to all the people of the Cordilleras.'

The festivity will also have the third pinikpikan contest where thousands of people will be fed with the traditional boiled chicken.

Pinikpikan is the Cordillera's answer to tinola but the chicken is burnt before it is boiled.

Balanag said more than 2,500 persons partook of the cooked pinikpikan during the last staging in 2011.

Other events include the seventh woodcarving competition, the 108 Gongs, drum circle, and Cordillera Theater, the arts and crafts shack design, the Cordillera arts and crafts fair, the Baguio Pine Film Festival and the Highland Food Village.

The woodcarving competition will feature local woodcarvers who will carve from a log featuring the Cordillera festivals.

It was first staged in 2005 during the first Ipitik and the Baguio Arts Guild then made a 'dap-ay', a gathering place made of stones with a bonfire place in the middle, at the southwestern portion of the Melvin Jones.

The 108 gongs will feature elementary and high school students dancing the different Cordillera cultural dances accompanied by the gongs.

The students will first undergo a six-week workshop in cultural dances, the gongs, and other native instruments.

The drum circle and Cordillera theatre is a nocturnal event where drummers and percussionists will be playing around a big bonfire, in between breaks, performances depicting Cordillera myths and legends will be presented.

The Cordillera arts and crafts fair will showcase the unique crafts, ware, food, costumes, textile, and products from the different provinces of the region.

The film fest is an event in coordination with the National Commission for Culture and the Arts' (NCCA) Cinema Rehiyon and the Film Development Council of the Philippines, and supported by the Goethe-institut and Alliance Francais.

There will be film screenings as well as masterclasses and workshops at the Rose Garden.

The Highland food fest is a display of local cuisines which is actually a reincarnation of last year's Mangan Tako festival (let's eat), a week-long display and sale of Cordillera cuisine also at the Rose garden.

'We are working with the Department of Tourism - Cordillera and had this event incorporated in it,' Balanag said.

There is also the Tukar (music playing), the Panagbenga Music Jam or the music for blossoming which will accompany the Baguio Blooms that is held weekly at the Baguio Convention Center.

To jazz up the event, the International Jazz Festival will be staged at the Rose Garden featuring international and national jazz artists that will culminate the festivity.

'We are staging this to support local arts and crafts, although we had it postponed due to the declaration that events will be staged on later dates due to the Covid scare,' said Gladys de Vera, acting chairman of the Baguio Tourism Council which co-presents this staging of the Ipitik festival.
366
Goethe-institut in Amman is organising an information session on Monday for Jordanian students wishing to apply for scholarships from the German Konrad-Adenauer-Stiftung (KAS) foundation to study in Germany.

According to its website, the KAS awards scholarships for students and graduates who have acquired a university degree and who intend to complete postgraduate or master's studies, doctoral studies or a research fellowship of at least three semesters at a university in Germany.

Candidates must be no older than 30 when applying, and are required to have a good knowledge of the German language. The information session will take place at Goethe-institut's library in Amman on Monday at 4 pm. The closing date for applications is April 26, according to the KAS website.
367
The 5th edition of Dhaka Art Summit (DAS), known as South Asia's biggest art and painting biennale exhibition, was inaugurated at the National Art Gallery of Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy (BSA) on Friday, February 7.

State Minister for Cultural Affairs KM Khalid inaugurated the nine-day event. Dhaka Art Summit Organising Committee Chairman Farooq Sobhan and Co-Founder and Director of Samdani Art Foundation Nadia Samdani delivered welcome speeches at the ceremony, presided over by BSA Director General Liaquat Ali Lucky.

"The Dhaka Art Summit has provided an opportunity as a place of harmony by putting both international and Bangladeshi artists and their artworks on display under one roof, side by side. For building a global platform, I thank the organisers of this summit," Khalid said.

Nadia Samdani said this year's summit theme is 'Seismic Movements', where different artworks related to geological movements, colonial movements, independence movement, social movements are on display.

The opening day witnessed performance by Bangladeshi artist Ariful Kabir and live art by Otobong Enkangar apart from a panel discussion.

Performance action titled 'Movimientos Emisores de Existencia' under the direction of Hector Zamorah was displayed in the lobby of the first floor of the National Picture gallery. A puppet show for children titled 'Golpo ta shobar' by Gidori Bauli also took place on Friday.

The last performance of the opening day, 'Together', took place in the National Art Gallery performed by Arunaddhyachal and Alexix Vozia.

This edition of DAS is being billed as 'plastic-free' and no air-conditioning is being used.

A special exhibition titled 'Lighting the Fire of Freedom Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman' is on display at the first floor of the Academy throughout the exhibition marking the birth centenary of Bangladesh's founding father.

The exhibition is being held under the overall supervision of the Centre for Research and Information (CRI) with support from the Department of Information and Communication Technology (ICT) and Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy. A huge number of historical photographs of Bangabandhu are on display.

Along with 290 participating Bangladeshi artists, a total of 500 painters, sculptors, curators, art critics, art professionals, art collectors, architects and media personalities from 44 countries are scheduled to take part in the nine-day art extravaganza.

Biswajit Goswami is the curator of Bangladeshi artists at the summit. A special exhibition titled 'Shekor' will take place under the supervision of Goswami in this year's summit. The life and works of Joynul Abedin, SM Sultan and Kamrun Hasan and other painters who contributed a lot to the development of painting education is being highlighted through different arrangements.

Samdani Art Foundation Director Nadia Samdani is serving as the Chief Coordinator of the summit while Diana Campbell Betancourt, Artistic Director of the Samdani Art Foundation, is serving as Chief Curator of the team consisting of 32 curators from home and abroad.

The summit is supported by the Ministry of Cultural Affairs, in association with the Department of Information and Communication Technology (ICT) and Bangladesh Art Academy. Title sponsor of this year's summit is Golden Harvest.

Serving a vision

Rajeeb and Nadia Samdani, the cofounders of the Samdani Art Foundation (SAF), have been organising Dhaka Art Summit biennially since 2012. In association with the Ministry of Cultural Affairs, ICT Division, Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy and other government bodies, the art collectors organised the 5th edition of "Dhaka Art Summit: Seismic Movements" (DAS 2020). The open-for-all event is underway at the National Art Gallery, Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy (BSA).

Forged through alliances across the globe, the platform features the contribution of 500 artists, scholars, curators and thinkers, in the form of panel discussions, performances and symposia as well as opportunities for participation from the 300,000 visitors, with their theme, "What is a movement and how do we ignite one beyond the confines of an art exhibition?"

An immersive installation by Adrian Villar Rojas, made of 400-million-year-old ammonite and orthoceras fossils, welcomes art lovers at the event. Featuring 300-million-year-old fossils of extinct species from the undersea the super-ocean Panthalassa, this exquisite installation narrates a tale that goes beyond all timelines. Their geological presence in the Himalayas speaks to a time when these melting peaks were once under water, as much of Bangladesh is expected to be in 50 years. This work serves as a metaphor to think of our past, present, and future on this planet outside of human-bound time, and to consider common ground on which to come together.

"Inspired by the geological reading of the word 'summit' as the top of a mountain, DAS 2020 considers the various ruptures that have realigned and continue to shift the face of our moving planet. Seismic movements do not adhere to statist or nationalist frameworks. They join and split apart tectonics of multiple scales and layers," shared Diana Campbell Betancourt, Chief Curator of DAS 2020.

"Lighting the Fire of Freedom", an initiative of the Centre for Research and Information (CRI), ICT Division, in collaboration with BSA and the Ministry of Cultural Affairs, pays tribute to Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman on his birth centenary. Organised simultaneously with DAS 2020, the exhibition, curated by Ruxmini Reckvana Q Choudhury, Assistant Curator of SAF, narrates the journey of the Father of the Nation (1920 - 1975), chronologically, through a rich variety of archival and contemporary materials, including personal photographs, newspapers, videos and artworks. The exhibition treasures historic moments, dating back to the Bengal Presidency under British Raj, the East Pakistan regime, and finally Bangladesh.

Supporting local artist-led organisations through its platform, Samdani Artist Led Initiatives Forum and Grant Programme, the foundation aims at developing the art scene of Bangladesh. Working collaboratively with Kathryn Weir (Cosmopolis, Centre Pompidou Paris), Artspace (Sydney), Gudskul (Jakarta), a public learning space established by Ruangrupa, Serrum and Grafis Huru Hara (Jakarta), Para Site (Hong Kong), RAW Material Company (Dakar) and Alserkal (Dubai), the Samdani Art Foundation has expanded this platform at DAS 2020.

"The Collective Body", an exhibition co-curated by Diana Campbell Betancourt and Kathryn Weir, crystallises concerns pertinent to collaborative practice in Bangladesh, drawing parallels and creating unprecedented exchange with other collective movements emerging across Asia, Africa, Central and South America, and Oceania. Ranging from puppet shows to concerts, debates, installations and performances, the 30 collectives and initiatives on display will collaborate around issues ranging from land rights and resource extraction, strategies of visibility and contestation, and analyses of the intersection between gender, caste and ethnicity.

Historic exhibition "Nobody Told Me There'd Be Days Like These", curated by Bangladeshi writer Mustafa Zaman, explores vibrant work of art, architecture, film, literature, and theatre collectives during the military regime in the 1980s in Bangladesh.

"Stepping Out of Line; Art Collectives and Translocal Parallelism", a symposium curated by RAW Material Company, Dakar, Senegal, addresses practices and forms of production that take the cooperating, non-hierarchical group as a guiding principle.

Over forty collectives and collaborative platforms active in Asia, Africa, Oceania, and Central and South America are present at DAS 2020. The talks, screenings, and workshops at the event will address other collective practices and initiatives including Somankidi Coura agricultural cooperative (Mali), Karrabing Collective (Australia) and the militant cinematographic movement that formed around independence leader Amilcar Cabral in Guinea Bissau.

Visitors will enter DAS 2020 through a newly commissioned performative installation by Kamruzzaman Shadhin in collaboration with the artist-led initiative Gidree Bawlee. The work considers the role of the British-era railways in changing Bengal's lands from growing food (rice) to producing cash-crops (jute) through migration stories found in traditional folk songs from Bangladesh.

Thao Nguyen Phan explores a similar history in Vietnam in her three-channel film "Mute Grain" (2018), which is based on the little known 1945 famine that killed nearly two million people, consulting texts about Bengal famine of 1943 in its creation.

Sawangwongse Yawnghwe's new painting places visitors within the entangled political web of control and addiction created through the production and trade of opium - from Ancient Egypt to today's opioid crisis. Nilima Sheikh is creating one of her largest murals to date for DAS 2020, chronicling women's ongoing struggles in Kashmir - the epicentre of the destruction left in the wake of the Partition of India and rising Indian nationalism.

The video and photographs of Liu Chuang and Samsul Alam Helal portray displacement of indigenous communities and cultures as a result of harvesting massive amounts of energy by building hydroelectric dams, connecting historical narratives across China and South and Southeast Asia via the mountainous region of Zomia.

Otobong Nkanga extends her ongoing project "Landversation" (2014 onwards) to Bangladesh after iterations in Brazil, Lebanon, and China. Developed through a month-long residency in Dhaka, the project sets out to explore and compare the complex relationship between the human subject and land.

Clarissa Tossin explores the 21st-century desire for space travel in the wake of unprecedented environmental destruction in the Amazon, weaving together satellite images of deforestation in Brazil with amazon.com boxes.

Artists played a major role in spreading the will for independence in what is now Bangladesh, from the Swadeshi movement from 1905, trailing along the language movement of 1952, finally culminating into the country's independence in 1971. Works evoking this energy by master artists such as Murtaja Baseer, Quamrul Hassan, Rashid Choudhury and Zainul Abedin, are being presented across DAS 2020, grounding the show in Bangladesh's history of protest, and the artistic movements that were part of its struggle for freedom.

The political history of Bangladesh is no different than that of the independence movements in Africa, South and Southeast Asia. Maryam Jafri's "Independence Day 1934-1975", an ongoing work, started in 2009. It features over 60 archival photos culled from over 30 archives of the first Independence Day ceremonies of various Asian, Middle Eastern, and African nations and zooms into the 24-hour twilight period as these places transform from territories to nation-states. Kapwani Kiwanga's ongoing project, "Flowers for Africa", is also on exhibit at the summit. Chitra Ganesh expands upon her exploration of gender and power in a futurist imagination that takes the 1905 utopian sci-fi feminist novella "Sultana's Dream" by Bengali author and social reformer Begum Rokeya as a point of departure to consider a world where men stay home, and women innovate new ways of being by harnessing the power of the sun.

Ellen Gallagher imagines a parallel universe underwater in her "Watery Ecstatic" series, inspired by the legend of Drexciya. It has been developed by the electronic music duo of the same name which imagines a birth through death, where children of pregnant slave women thrown overboard are born with gills and do not have to come up to the oppressive world above for air.

In an ongoing collaboration with Artspace Sydney, Taloi Havini collaborates with her community in Bougainville, transforming traditional weaving techniques to create a monumental meeting place at the centre of DAS 2020. This new commission is a space to consider personal and political narratives around themes of place, protection and resilience, at a time when communities across the globe find themselves at the tipping point of environmental and social change.

"On Muzharul Islam: Surfacing Intention" is a group exhibition of primarily commissioned works by 17 artists responding to the built and unbuilt legacy of the groundbreaking Bangladeshi architect Muzharul Islam (1923-2012). Co-curated by Diana Campbell Betancourt with Sean Anderson, Associate Curator, Department of Architecture and Design, The Museum of Modern Art, and Nurur Khan, Director, Muzharul Islam Archive, the exhibition shows the interplay and occasional confrontation inherent among architectural spaces within an emergent nation-state.

"Rituals for Temporal Deprogramming", curated by the Otolith Group, features works by Ayo Akingbade, Hadel Assali, Taysir Batniji, Tony Cokes, Esi Eshun, Black Quantum Futurism, Mohammed Harb, Louis Henderson, Onyeka Igwe, Salman Nawati, Ana Pi, Morgan Quaintance, Alfred Santana, Rania Stephan, Sharif Waked and Rehana Zaman, incorporating images, sounds, voices, gestures, expressions, noises, colours, spaces and silences to deprogramme the inherited orders of temporality, chronology and history that seek to manage and encourage the form of the present and the fate of the future.

With support from the Getty Foundation's "Connecting Art Histories" initiative, DAS has launched "Connecting Modern Art Histories in and across Africa, South and Southeast Asia (MAHASSA)" in collaboration with the Institute for Comparative Modernities (ICM) at Cornell University, and the Asia Art Archive. MAHASSA is a project shaped by shared institutional and intellectual developments that are closely related based on the fact that Africa, South and Southeast Asia are marked by similar experiences during the 20th century.

The fifth edition of the Samdani Art Award, curated by Philippe Pirotte and which came into fruition in partnership with the Goethe-institut of Dhaka, gives artists the opportunity to create new work for DAS 2020 and to be supported in a residency at Srihatta. The international jury is chaired by Aaron Cezar (Director, Delfina Foundation) with Adrian Villar Rojas (artist), Carolyn Christov-Bakargiev (Director, Castello di Rivoli), Julie Mehretu (artist) and Eungie Joo (curator, SF MoMA). Soma Surovi Jannat received the Samdani Art Award this year, for her work "Into the Yarn, Out in the One" (pen on plywood, wood and wall, 2019-2020). The other shortlisted artists were: Ariful Kabir, Ashfika Rahman, Faiham Ebna Sharif, Habiba Nowrose, Najmun Nahar Keya, Palash Bhattacharjee, Sounak Das, Sumana Akter, Tahia Farhin Haque, and Zihan Karim. Breaking the convention, Promiti Hossain was respected with a special mention award for her work "Personal and Social" (2019-2020), facilitated by the Jury Board from their honourariums of the summit.

In her work titled "Life of a Venus" Habiba Nowrose tries to reimagine the life cycle of Venus, Roman goddess of beauty and love, in the present context. Her masterful use of kitschy fabric with pattern and colour speaks volumes about the monotony, absurdity and sentimental irony in the quotidian life of modern-day women.

"Roots", curated by Dhaka based artist and educator Bishwajit Goswami, examines the transfer of knowledge by art educators who have been critical in the building of Bangladesh's art history. The interesting educative programme focuses on the role of Bangladeshi artists in building the institutions that support artistic production in the country, from founding formal institutions like art schools (such as Zainul Abedin with the Faculty of Fine Arts, University of Dhaka and Rashid Choudhury with the Institute of Fine Arts, University of Chittagong) to informal art education outside of the capital (SM Sultan's Shishu Swarga and Charupith Jashore).

"Srijan-Abartan", an international, cross-cultural and inter-disciplinary research project, aims at developing new tools and methodologies for creating culturally rooted, ecologically sustainable, and socially responsible exhibition displays. The project is funded by Pro Helvetia - Swiss Arts Council, and led by the Swiss design research practice common-interest, in collaboration with SAF for DAS 2020. All of DAS's exhibitions are supported by an ambitious commissions' programme, which invites internationally acclaimed contemporary artists related to South Asia to create new work.

Celebrated for its critically acclaimed exhibitions by local and international arts professionals, DAS has many past projects which have toured internationally to venues and festivals, including Para Site in Hong Kong, TS1 in Yangon, Modern Art Museum in Warsaw, Berlin Biennale, Gwangju Biennale, Singapore Biennale, Queens Museum in New York, Kunsthalle Basel in Switzerland, Artspace in Sydney, Office for Contemporary Art Norway, San Jose Museum of Art in USA, Liverpool Biennial, Museum of Modern and Contemporary Art in Sri Lanka, Kunsthall Trondheim in Norway and MAIIAM Contemporary Art Museum in Thailand.

The summit is open to all until February 15.

Published by HT Digital Content Services with permission from Dhaka Courier.
368
In January, the Goethe-institut commissioned HerStory Foundation to beautify the bag lockers that are used by visitors of the Institute. The result is a mural by 13 artists illustrating 12 supernatural female characters from Bengali and German folk traditions. 'È£bernatural: Unlocked' the beautification of the storage facilities unlocks the many powerful female-driven narratives of the two cultures.

The opening ceremony of 'È£bernatural: Unlockedm' was held at the Goethe-institut in the capital's Dhanmondi area on February 11.

A musical performance by Alex and the Monsters was also followed by storytime and a scavenger hunt, visitors had the chance to win a goodie bag of Goethe and HerStory Foundnation treats. Basically this is project by Goethe-institut Bangladesh facilitated by HerStory Foundation.

Stories and participant artists are:

Mader Gaan by Aabir Khalid, Patal Konya Monimala by Ahmed Fahim, Tanyabi Firti by Antora Mehrukh Azad, Rapunzel by Fj Mony, Frau Prechta by Farah Khandaker, Sultana's Dream by Inshra Sakhawat Russell, Brunhild by Kabir Ava, È£bernatural: Unlocked - typography by Kazi Istela, Frau Holle by Rafiuzzaman Rhythom, Chadburi by Sayeef Mahmud, Lorelei by Shourov Khan, Behula and Manasha by Venessa Kaiser, Bon Bibi by Wasi Ahmed.
369
Three students of DPS Bokaro, Sanjivani Kumari, Suhani Bharti, Khushi Bharti of class IX made their alma mater proud by being selected to participate in the prestigious International Youth Conference scheduled to be held at St. Peter-Ording I, Germany in collaboration with Goethe-institut and Federal Republic of Germany from 10 to 30 May this year.

This camp is a part of the scholarship offered to those students who have excelled in German language studies; hence, all expenses pertaining to the trip are borne by Goethe-institut. These students qualified a challenging online selection test followed by an interview to make their way to Deutschland.

Every year Goethe-institut organizes these camps in Germany for students from more than 1800 schools all over the globe which are a part of the PASCH network worldwide.

Expressing his pleasure, AS Gangwar, Principal, DPS Bokaro said that this success is the result of the relentless efforts of the students and the perseverance of their teacher. It is indeed a golden opportunity which will enable the students to explore new avenues in the global scenario.
370
At the event, Alex and the Monsters will deliver a musical performance, which will be followed by story time and a scavenger hunt

Mural of Bangla and German Folk Tales titled Ubernatural: Unlockedm will open on Tuesday, February 11 at the Goethe-institut. The opening ceremony will take place at 5:30pm.

At the event, Alex and the Monsters will deliver a musical performance, which will be followed by story time and a scavenger hunt. Visitors will also have the chance to win goodie bags of Goethe and HerStory Foundation treats.

In January, the Goethe-institut commissioned HerStory Foundation to beautify the bag lockers that are used by visitors of the Institute. The result is a mural by 13 artists illustrating 12 supernatural female characters from Bengali and German folk traditions.
371
NAMIBIA will host the 24th biannual Southern African Library Association Conference in April this year.

The conference was launched in Windhoek yesterday and would run under the theme 'Inclusive Libraries and Information Services towards Achieving Prosperity for Sustainable Development' and will take place from 20 to 25 April 2020.

Namibia, through the Namibia Information Workers Association (Niwa), will host the conference for the first time since 2000.

The Standing Conference of Eastern, Central and Southern African Library and Information Association aims to enhance new ideas, technologies and the general advancement and development of library and information services in African countries.

The regional forum for library and information associations in Africa, which currently consists of 26 African member countries, held its first conference in Dar-es-Salaam, Tanzania, in 1974. Namibia only joined the association in 1990.

Deputy executive director of formal education Edda Bohn delivered the keynote address on behalf of the acting minister of education, arts and culture, Martin Andjaba.

"Namibia officially received the announcement to host conference 2020 from Uganda, as the previous host," said Bohn, adding: "As a country, this is our baby and it means a lot to the country and the continent as a whole."

Bohn also elaborated on the importance of access to information for the development of education, economy, health and other social opportunities in the country.

"Access to information empowers people to exercise their political and socio-economic rights, to learn new skills and allows informed decision making," said Bohn.

She also stressed the importance of access to information in Namibia to achieve Vision 2030.

"Libraries and information institutions remain at the forefront when it comes to delivering free access to information for development."

Bohn thanked all sponsors and library partners, as well as the National Organising Committee led by Chiku Mnubi-Mchombu.

During the same occasion, Mnubi-Mchombu informed the audience that another goal of the conference is to work towards making libraries and other information services available to all, including the hearing and visually impaired.

Speaker of the National Assembly Peter Katjavivi would be the guest of honour during the conference.

So far, the national organising committee has succeeded in securing sponsorships from the Namibia Library and Information Council, the Namibia University of Science and Technology, Tukwafela Investments, the International University of Management and from the Goethe-institut.

Mnubi-Mchombu added that they are still accepting sponsorships. She also invited exhibitors, who would like to showcase their products or services during the conference.

Exhibitors can include e-resource providers, bookshops and publishers.
372
The Federal Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, Angela Merkel, visits Angola, for the second time, next Friday, the 7th, to deepen relations between the two countries.

According to a press release from the Civil House of the President of the Republic, Angela Merkel will have a meeting with the President of the Republic, Joo Loureno.

In the afternoon of the same day, the Chancellor and President Joo Loureno are going to open the German-Angolan Economic Forum.

Subsequently, a visit to the Anthropology Museum is planned, which started a cooperation program with the Goethe-institut Angola and the Prussian Cultural Heritage Foundation.

The Chancellor will also visit a German company in the Angolan capital and meet with Angolans who studied in Germany.

Before her mission to Angola, Angela Merkel will visit the Republic of South Africa, accompanied by a business delegation from her country.

The German Chancellor's first visit to Angola took place in 2011, when an extended partnership between the two countries was agreed.

President Joo Loureno visited Germany in August 2018 and met Chancellor Merkel in New York in September last year.
373
The 13th International Children's Film Festival Bangladesh was inaugurated on January 24 at the Shawkat Osman Auditorium of Sufia Kamal National Public Library, Shahbagh in the city. Former Finance Minister Dr. Abul Maal Abdul Muhith inaugurated the fest. State Minister for Information and Communication Technology (ICT) Zunaid Ahmed Palak was present as special guest at the inaugural ceremony. Chairman of the Festival's Advisory Council Mustafa Monwar presided over the event.

Children's Film Society Bangladesh (CFS) is the organiser of this week-long mega event, with the slogan 'Frame-e Frame-e Agamir Shawpno'.

A total of 173 films from 39 participating countries are being screened at 5 venues across the capital in this year's fest. Alongside regular screenings, the fest also features different workshops and discussions. Apart from the central venue-- Shawkat Osman Auditorium of Sufia Kamal National Public Library, the other 4 venues are--- Alliance Francaise de Dhaka, Goethe-institut Bangladesh, Sufia Kamal Auditorium of National Museum and National Art Gallery of Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy. All screenings are open and free of cost for audiences of all ages.

Four workshops will be held at this year's fest. Noted filmmaker Nehal Qureshi will undertake a workshop on cinematography; Piplu R Khan will undertake a workshop on direction; Nahid Masud will conduct a workshop on sound in film and Amitabh Reza Chowdhury will conduct a workshop on story-telling. There will also be several discussion sessions throughout the event.

The festival will continue till January 31.

Published by HT Digital Content Services with permission from Dhaka Courier.
374
The week-long festival is set to feature 173 films from 39 participating countries including Bangladesh, India, Mexico, Spain, France, Germany, Canada, Qatar, Korea, Armenia and others

The 13th edition of the International Children's Film Festival Bangladesh began on Friday with the slogan "Future in Frames," in festive mood. The inaugural ceremony of the festival took place at the main auditorium of the Public Library in the city.

On the first day of the festival, Khoka Jokhon Chhoto Chhilen directed by Sudipta Saha was screened, following the formal ceremonies.

German film-maker Katja Benrath's Rocca Changes the World was also screened.

Former finance minister Abul Maal Abdul Muhith was present on the occasion as the chief guest, while State Minister for ICT Zunaid Ahmed Palak was present as the special guest.

President of Children's Film Society Bangladesh Dr Muhammad Zafar Iqbal, General Secretary Munira Morshed Munni, film-maker and founder of the festival and Children's Film Society Bangladesh (CFSB) Morshedul Islam and festival Director Fariha Jahin Biva were also present at the ceremony.

Festival advisory committee Chairman and art maestro Mustafa Monwar presided over the event.

The week-long festival is set to feature 173 films from 39 participating countries including Bangladesh, India, Mexico, Spain, France, Germany, Canada, Qatar, Korea, Armenia and others.

The films will be screened under different sections such as Bangladeshi Children Film-makers Section, Special Film Competition, International Competitive Film Section, Young Bangladeshi Film Section and Bangabandhu Through My Lens - a new section which was introduced observing the birth centenary of Bangabandhu.

The Jury board for Bangladeshi Children Filmmakers Section consists of five members who are below 18.

The festival will feature workshops and interactive sessions with Nehal Quraishi (cinematography), Piplu R Khan (direction), Nahid Masud (sound in films) and Amitabh Reza Chowdhury (story-telling).

The films will be screened at 11am, 2pm, 4pm and 6pm at five different venues - Public Library, Bangladesh National Museum, Alliance Francaise de Dhaka, Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy and Goethe-institut Bangladesh.
375
The Lahore Biennale Foundation on Thursday revealed a list of over 70 participating artists for the second edition of the Lahore Biennale (LB02), running from Sunday to Wednesday.

Curated by Hoor Al Qasimi, Director of the Sharjah Art Foundation in Sharjah, United Arab Emirates, LB02: between the sun and the moon brings a plethora of artistic projects to cultural and heritage sites throughout the city of Lahore including more than 20 new commissions by artists from across the region and around the world, including Alia Farid, Diana Al-Hadid, Hassan Hajjaj, Haroon Mirza, Hajra Waheed and Simone Fattal, among many others. Other participating artists include Anwar Saeed, Rasheed Araeen and the late Madiha Aijaz.

With a focus on the global south, where ongoing social disaffection is being aggravated by climate change, LB02 responds to the cultural and ecological history of Lahore and aims to awaken awareness of humanity's daunting contemporary predicament. Works presented in LB02 will explore human entanglement with the environment while revisiting traditional understandings of the self and their cosmological underpinnings. Inspiration for this thematic focus is drawn from intellectual and cultural exchange between South and West Asia.

"For centuries, inhabitants of these regions oriented themselves with reference to the sun, the moon, and the constellations. How might we reflect on our place within the cosmos today, at this conjuncture of planetary climate crisis and polarities between societies?" said Hoor Al Qasimi, Curator of LB02. "LB02 looks upwards with a view to forging new resonances and new imaginings of the future that encompass the full breadth of its material and virtual possibilities, growing from a tradition of intra-regional mobility of ideas, people, flora and fauna."

New commissions for LB02 exploring these themes include:

An immersive multimedia installation and performative experience by Almagul Menlibayeva inspired by Timurid ruler and astronomer Sultan Ulugh Beg (1394-1449), combining exploration of his works in astronomy-related mathematics, arts and Islamic metaphysics brought to life through site-specific performances by sound artist German Popov and painter Inna Artemova.

A film by Alia Farid exploring humanity's multidimensional relationship with animals and the environment. Shot in the fertile alluvial plains of the Indus River and its tributaries in the province of Punjab, this work considers the effect of the partition of the Indian subcontinent in 1947, whilst examining the evolving relationship of locals with waterways.

'For centuries, inhabitants of these regions oriented themselves with reference to the sun, the moon and the constellations. How might we reflect on our place within the cosmos today, at this conjuncture of planetary climate crisis and polarities between societies?' said Hoor Al Qasimi, Curator of LB02

An installation and publication by Reem Falaknaz illuminating a little-known cultural link between Pakistan and the UAE in the form of pigeon racing, drawing upon visually arresting profiles of racers, competitions and celebratory photos of winners with their trophies.

Bronze sculptures by Taus Makhacheva depicting fragmentary narratives of twelve fictional female characters, each accompanied by sound and poetry by women writers including Rachida Madani and Warsan Shire.

The Pak Khawateen Painting Club (translated into "Pure Pakistani Women's Painting Club") studies traditional and modern distribution of water for irrigation and urban purposes, and policies of colonial and post-colonial hydrology.

Bearing the imprint of epochal transformations spanning the Mughal, Sikh and British eras, as well as its more recent post-Partition sovereignty, Lahore provides a rich and complex urban tapestry for artistic intervention. An important node for the movement of people and ideas, and for material, cultural and environmental exchange since antiquity, this hub of 11 million people is today a leading cultural centre, home to prominent artists, writers, musicians and art institutions.

LB02: between the sun and the moon will install ambitious works of contemporary art throughout cultural heritage sites across the city, including:

Gaddafi Stadium, home of Pakistan's national cricket team designed by architect Nasreddin Murat-Khan (1959), and re-appropriated by architect Nayyar Ali Dada in 1996. Lahore Museum, an important example of Indo-Saracenic architecture constructed under British rule, which holds the country's largest and oldest collection of historical, cultural and artistic objects.

Lahore Fort, citadel that dates back to 1566. Constructed on an ancient site by successive Mughal emperors it was famously rebuilt in the 17th century, when the empire was at the summit of its splendor. Later additions were added under the Sikh period. PIA Planetarium, located near Chauburji, the historic gateway to Lahore, the PIA Planetarium was built in the 1980s, when Pakistan International Airlines was renowned as a leading airline in Asia and pioneer of commercial aviation in the Muslim world.

PILAC (Punjab Institute of Language, Art & Culture) was established to promote the art and cultural richness of Punjab, designed by renowned architect Nayyar Ali Dada (1994). Tollinton Market, built in 1864 as a temporary exhibition space for the First Punjab Exhibition Hall has served various purposes over time. Most recently it has been restored into a museum, by architect Sajjad Kausar.

The artists creating new commissions for LB02 include Ajam Media Collective, Almagul Menlibayeva, Alia Farid, Ayesha Zulfiqar, Ayman Zedani, Bahar Behbahani, Barbara Walker, Diana Al-Hadid, Eyob Kitaba, Khadim Ali, Henok Melkamzer, Hassan Hajjaj, Haroon Mirza, Hajra Waheed, Imran Ahmad Khan, Kamala Ibrahim Ishaq, Muzzumil Ruheel, Pak Khawateen Painting Club, Rayyane Tabet, Reem Falaknaz, Simone Fattal and Taus Makhacheva.

List of artists participating in LB02: Between The Sun & The Moon are Abdullah Al Saadi, AdriÈín Villar Rojas, Afrah Shafiq, Ajam Media Collective, Ali Kazim, Alia Farid, Almagul Menlibayeva, Amar Kanwar, Amina Menia, Amina Zoubir, Anwar Saeed, Ayesha Zulfiqar, Ayman Zedani, Bahar Behbahani, Barbara Walker, Basir Mahmood, Basma Al Sharif, Berni Searle, Bouchra Khalili, Christodoulos Panayiotou, Diana Al-Hadid, Eyob Kitaba, Farah Al Qasimi, Farideh Lashai, Farkhanda Ashraf Khilji, Gary Simmons, Hajra Waheed, Halil Altindere, Henok Melkamzer, Haris Epaminonda, Haroon Mirza, Hassan Hajjaj, Hera BÈ­yÈ­kta?ç?yan and Hajra Haider Karrar, Hoda Afshar, Hrair Sarkissian, Imran Ahmad Khan, Jeanno Gaussi, John Akomfrah, Kader Attia, Kamala Ibrahim Ishaq, Khadim Ali, Khalil Rabah, Lida Abdul, Madiha Aijaz, Mariam Ghani, Mark Salvatus, Marwa Arsanios, Michael Rakowitz, Moza Al Matrooshi, Mudasar Rashdi, Muzzumil Ruheel, Mohammad Ali Talpur, Munem Wasif, Muzzumil Ruheel, Naiza Khan, Nalini Malani, Nasrin Tabatabai and Babak Affrasiabi, Nedko Solakov, The Otolith Group, Pak Khawateen Painting Club, Rabbya Naseer & Hurmat ul Ain, Rachid Koraïchi, Rahat Ali, Rasheed Araeen, Rayyane Tabet, Reem Falaknaz, Shezad Dawood, Simone Fattal, Slavs and Tatars, Taus Makhacheva, Tentative Collective, Vivan Sundaram, Wael Shawky, Waseem Akram, Yaminay Chaudhri, Younus Nomani, Yousuf Nomani, Yto Barrada, Zarina Bhimji and Zulfiqar Rind.

Hoor Al Qasimi is President and Director of Sharjah Art Foundation. Her recent curatorial projects include solo exhibitions of Amal Kenawy (2018), Hassan Sharif (2017), Yayoi Kusama (2016), Robert Breer (2016), Farideh Lashai (2016), Rasheed Araeen (2014) and Susan Hefuna (2014). She co-curated Joana Hadjithomas and Khalil Joreige: Two Suns in a Sunset (2016) and major surveys such as When Art Becomes Liberty: The Egyptian Surrealists (1938-1965) (2016) and The Khartoum School: The Making of the Modern Art Movement in Sudan (1945-present) (2016-2017). Al Qasimi served as co-curator of Sharjah Biennial 6 (2003), she has since continued as Biennial Director. She curated the UAE National Pavilion for the Venice Biennale (2015).

Al Qasimi is President of the International Biennial Association; Chair of the Advisory Board, College of Fine Arts and Design, University of Sharjah; and President of The Africa Institute, Sharjah. Al Qasimi serves on the board of directors for MoMA PS1, New York; Kunst-Werke, Berlin; Ashkal Alwan, Beirut; and Sharjah Architecture Triennial; as well as advisory boards for Khoj, New Delhi; and Darat al Funun, Amman. She is also a member of the Prince Claus Awards Committee (2016-present).

The Lahore Biennale Foundation (LBF) is a non-profit organization based in Lahore, Pakistan, that seeks to provide critical sites for experimentation in the visual arts through its flagship initiative, the Lahore Biennale, and through year-round public art projects presented across Pakistan. Inclusivity, collaboration and public engagement are central to LBF's mission to support art as an agent of social transformation.

Lahore Biennale LB02 has the strong support of the Government of Punjab and its various Departments, and Corporate Partnership with Habib Bank Limited (HBL) as Lead Sponsor. Other sponsors include AkzoNobel Pakistan, Servis Foundation, Agha Steel Industries and Careem. Institutional partners include the Barjeel Foundation, NCA, Punjab University, Lahore Museum, Walled City of Lahore Authority, South Asia Institute Chicago, Alhamra Cultural Complex, PILAC and Goethe-institut, COMO. Lahore Biennale Foundation's Founding Patrons include the Babar Ali Foundation, Nayyar Ali Dada and Associates and Ferozsons Laboratories Ltd.
376
As part of the hypersurfacing forum, organised on the occasion of the 25th anniversary of NiMAC, the Arts Centre in collaboration with the Goethe-institut Cyprus presents a public talk on changing conceptions on education and power.

Through various twists and turns, a conversation about collective agency emerges with the aim of rethinking current paradigms of cognition, education, and power in the talk by artist Natascha Sadr Haghighian, moderated by curator Ryan Inouye, on January 23. Haghighian and Inouye have previously collaborated on the book How to Spell the Fight. For the Kayfa ta series.

"Kayfa ta consists of monographs taking the form of how-to manuals positioning themselves in the space between the technical and the reflective, the everyday and the speculative, the instructional and the intuitive, the factual and the fictional," explain the event organisers. "How to Spell the Fight may serve as a starting point for thinking about hypersurfacing in terms of pedagogy and entanglement, and the 'haptic' surfaces that run between us and extend our reach."

Haghighian represented Germany at the Venice Biennale in 2019, changing her name to Natascha SÈ­der Happelmann for the project. Her spokesperson, Helene Duldung, said she explained how her alias was a computer-generated amalgamation of autocorrected and misspelt variants of her name drawn from 30 years of correspondence with various government agencies. In her highly political work, the multidisciplinary artist uses performance, installation, sound and text to explore the themes of culture, identity and belonging.

This is not the first time the artist has played with the notion of identity -- her refusal to be categorised by conventional biographical information permeates much of Haghighian's work. In 2004 she launched the website, bioswop.net, enabling visitors to borrow parts of each other's résumés. What is more, her Wikipedia entry includes multiple pieces of conflicting information about her identity. For instance, her birthplace is listed as "born Budapest, 1987 or Sachsenheim, 1968 or Australia, 1979 or Munich, 1979 or Tehran, 1967 or London, 1966 or Iran, 1953."

Rather than addressing political issues squarely, Haghighian more often chooses to deal with open secrets and taboos of contemporary culture. In her 2013 show at Berlin's Galerie KÈµnig, the artist dived into the issue of the arms trade by building a replica of a German Leopard 2A7+ tank to raise awareness of the little-known fact that Germany is the world's third-largest arms exporter. In an accompanying sound recording, Haghighian reads aloud various documents on government-authorised violence.

For Documenta 14, Haghighian joined the artist collective Society of Friends of Halit to investigate the 2006 murder of 21-year-old Halit Yozgut, the son of Turkish immigrants who was killed by a Neo-Nazi terrorist group in Kassel. For the show she exhibited the computer-generated results of her collaboration with forensics experts to uncover new leads in the case.

Haghighian lives in Berlin. Her research-based practice encompasses a variety of forms and formats, among them video, performance, installations, text and sound. In place of a biographical note, Haghighian wishes to draw the readers' attention to www.bioswop.net .

On www.bioswop.net artists and other cultural practitioners can borrow, exchange, and compile CVs for various purposes. The site went online in October 2004 and is a work in progress. The aim is to have more and more people exchanging their CVs for representational purposes, like in catalogues and so on. The project aims to render that particular section of an artist's production even more 'redundant'. Bioswop hopes to undermine the purpose of art CVs and résumés or at least to make them a bit more of an entertaining read.

Inouye is an associate curator of Sharjah Biennial 12. From 2010 to 2013, he worked as an assistant curator and curatorial assistant at the New Museum, New York, where he focused on the 2012 New Museum Triennial, The Ungovernable, and the Museum as Hub initiative. He has organised the projects: Museum as Hub: Center for Historical Reenactments: After-after Tears (2013) and Museum as Hub: Steffani Jemison and Jamal Cyrus: Alpha's Bet Is Not Over Yet! with Ethan Swan (2011).

He has also organised residencies with Chimurenga, Cape Town (2013) and the Desire Machine Collective, Guwahati, India (2013). Between 2006 and 2010 Inouye was curatorial assistant at REDCAT, Los Angeles. He has written on the work of Abraham Cruzvillegas, Iman Issa, Invisible Borders, Lee Kit and Apichatpong Weerasethakul among others. He lives and works in Sharjah.

The talk in English on Thursday will be followed by the listening set Death in Everyday Life... Is this the Bardo? by Ayios Loizos (20') and the performance How to: Happy Acid by Panayotis Mina (20').

The YouTube 'how-to' culture, post-Internet practices and club cultures are the main themes of this performance by Panayotis Mina, to take place alongside a live music set by Whirl-DOS. The two often share sound production or live music platforms and both are members of the local record label Honest Electronics.

In this instance, the production becomes a performance. Mina is interested in social phenomena and in anthropologically dissecting popular culture. Memes, viral videos, popular music and social ideology all take part in his performances, exhibitions, publications and musical releases. He describes himself as an 'anti auteur' who often works between the lines of parody, authorship, pastiche and reality.

The event is free to attend and is made possible with the support of the Goethe-institut Cyprus.

Forum: Talk by Natascha Sadr Haghighian

'Haptic' surfaces: pedagogy and entanglement. Talk by Natascha Sadr Haghighian, moderated by Ryan Inouye. January 23.
377
The film screenings on Fridays are back in Goethe-institut Kolkata - the cultural centre of German Consulate in the city. The project that started in January 2012 has entertained the robust community of cine buffs in the city. After being stopped for six months, the screening - Friday Films@Goethe-institut - will start again from January 31 with Gordian Maugg's Fritz Lang (1916). A spokesperson from the institute said, "We have always aimed to screen both old and new films. So far, we have screened as many as 120 films that have won Oscars, Golden Bears, Silver Bears and Golden Palms. The oldest film that we screened is The Oyster Princess (1919) by Ernst Lubitsch. Besides, we screen films by some of the most renowned directors over a century of German cinema, including Ernst Lubitsch, Fritz Lang, Helmut Kutner, Reiner Werner Fassbinder, Werner Herzog, Wim Wenders, Volker Schl÷ndorff, Doris D÷rrie, Caroline Link, Fatih Akin and Christian Petzold."
378
Twenty years ago, when architect Brinda Somaya organised a conference in which women architects from India, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh and Pakistan came together and spoke about their accomplishments, many men had asked Somaya: "Are we allowed?" This time around, Somaya hopes the question evades her as she gears up to curate 'Women in Design 2020+' international conference which will see over 35 women in architecture and design from all over the world share their stories at the Nehru Centre from January 8 to 10."I hope there are more men in the audience than there were back in 2000. I want the conference to be an equalizer," says Somaya, who feels it's important for everyone to listen to and celebrate the accomplishments of women in the fields of architecture, design and other creative fields who battle stereotypes and face challenges in setting up an independent office.Organized by Somaya's firm along with The HECAR Foundation, a nonprofit which seeks to educate the public about architecture, heritage and urban issues, the event boasts discussions featuring architects Abha Narain Lambah, Shimul Javeri Kadri and Annabelle Selldorf, an architect of German origin who set up her firm in New York City back in 1988. Among the speakers are also Billie Tsein of the Manhattan studio Tod Williams Billie Tsein architects which designed the Obama Presidential Centre in Chicago and Londonbased Joana Dabaj who has rebuilt camps in war-torn Syria. "We've invited speakers from every continent except Antarctica," says Somaya.The idea of rebooting the conference held in 2000 came up while Somaya and her daughter Nandini Somaya Sampat were working on a book archiving their works. This rekindled memories of the event for which Somaya had invited the first woman architect of Pakistan, Yasmeen Laari. Besides networking opportunities in what was a lonely time for women in the practice, this conference also spawned a book and workshops for women professionals wanting to get back to the workplace after motherhood. Energised by the memory, Somaya decided to mine her personal connections to bring down speakers who will share their works and thoughts this year. Alongside the event, an exhibition titled '20 Year Manifesto' at the Goethe-institut Max Mueller Bhavan, will showcase practices led by women from various creative fields.
379
Goethe-institut Bangladesh, in cooperation with the International Film Initiative of Bangladesh (IFIB), organized the screening of filmmaker Shahneoyaj Cacoly directed and Impress Telefilm produced film "Nodijon" (The River of Colors) on Sunday, December 15 at Goethe-institut Bangladesh auditorium.

The event was joined by President of the International Film Initiative of Bangladesh (IFIB) Samia Zaman, Dhaka University's Associate Professor of the Department of Theatre and Performance Studies and actor Wahida Mollick, the film's actor Pran Roy and director Shahneoyaj Cacoly.

Samia Zaman, in her welcoming speech, said "Almost a year has passed since we started 'Through Her Eyes' Film Screening series, which has given us the opportunity to come together regularly to watch and discuss films made by women. A bold film about social injustice against women, 'Nodijon' again reminded me about why we thought it was important to have this space."

The film "Nodijan", deals with the social and marital consequences of a man divorcing his wife by using the verbal 'talaq'; first suspecting her of adultery and then realizing his mistake and wanting her back. Sheikh Zahirul Hoque wrote the story of the film, whereas the screenplay writer and cinematographer is the director herself. Emon Shaha is the music director of the film.

Born in Rangpur, Bangladesh, Shahneoyaj Cacoly is well known for portraying artistic depiction of social realities through her films. She won the National Film Award for her debut film 'Uttorer Sur'. Her interest in films started to grow after study on canvas of color-life. Also known as a painter, she pursued her master's degree in Fine Arts from Faculty of Fine Arts, University of Dhaka. She worked at several advertisements, dramas and mainstream films as an art director, before starting her career as a movie-director in 2006. Every production of her is illustrious and earned appraisal and respect in both national and international stages. She has also participated at several national and international film festivals as a member of jury.

Followed by the screening, filmmaker Shahneoyaj Cacoly and actor Pran Roy spoke during a lively Q&A discussion session, moderated by Wahida Mollick.
380
Tenders are invited for Construction supervision services and sigeko: retaining walls kassel rbf

Goethe-institut e.v. 24.01.20 published: 20.12.19

Award procedure: Services

Offer period: 20.01.2020

Major organization : DB NETZ AG (BUKR 16)

Address : 34127 Kassel Hessen

Country :Germany
381
Nine German films were featured at a national artist for film Kidlat Tahimik's Ili-likha Artists Village theater during the 4th German Film Week that ended on December 19.

The lineup is made up of all award-winning films with 'Good Bye, Lenin!', a 2003 romantic, comedy-drama film that stars Daniel Bruhl, who would later be cast in hit films like 'Bourne Supremacy' and as Helmut Zemo, the chief antagonist in 'Captain America: Civil War.'

Nominated for Best Foreign Film during the 2004 Golden Globe Awards and winners in Best European Film in 2003 and Blue Angel Wolfgang Becker in 2004, the film has a setting in October 1989 in East Germany when the Berlin Wall fell.

Bruhl is cast as Alex, who is left to tend to his ailing Socialist mother suffering from a weak heart.

Afraid that, his mother will die if the news reached her that Communist Germany is no more, he transformed their house into a kind of socialist-era museum, a lie which became a major scam when his neighbors were drawn into making his mom believe 'that (Russian Communist leader Vladimir) Lenin really did win after all.'

All About Me, or Der Junge Muss an Die Frische Luft, is a 2018 film by Caroline Link that won the Highest Grossing Film, Outstanding Feature Film and best director of 2018 in the German Films Award.

Set in 1972 in German's Ruhr Valley, it is about Hans Peter or Hape, a chubby kid who is full of self-confidence, since he is capable of making people laugh.

But the story turns dark when his mother loses her sense of smell and taste due to chronic sinusitis leading to her depression, and the sadness due to her depression makes Hape act out his comedic side the more.

'Gundermann' is a 2018 film that won the best screenplay this year in the Romy Gala Austria, where it was also nominated for best film and favorite actor.

Spiegel De, one of the most widely read German-language news website, describes it as: 'One of the richest, most sophisticated and greatest films about the GDR (German Democratic Republic or East Germany).'

The 2018 comedy '100 Things' and the 2007 best foreign film of the Academy Awards and Best European Film (2007) 'The Lives of Others', 'Berlin Blues' (2003), 'Barbara' (2012), '25 Km/H' and 'The Keeper', 'Trautmann', a 2008 film of German, UK and Ireland production, were also featured during the week-long film fest backed by the Goethe-institut.

Ili-likha is a three-story avant-garde structure along Assumption Road that sprouted from the mind of Kidlat Tahimik and his artist-sons, namesake Kidlat and Kawayan.

Artists own and manage the various coffee shops within the building that was built from scraps like bottles but with a sound foundation.

Exhibits like painting, sculpture, and film fests are held regularly and it is the only artists' community within the city's central business district.
382
Goethe-institut Bangladesh, in cooperation with the International Film Initiative of Bangladesh (IFIB), organized the screening of the film Nodijon (The River of Colours), at the capital's Goethe-institut Bangladesh auditorium on Sunday evening. The film is directed by Bangladeshi film-maker Shahneoyaj Cacoly.

Welcoming the filmmaker and audience, IFIB President Samia Zaman said: 'Almost a year has passed since we started the Through Her Eyes film screening series. It has given us the opportunity to come together regularly to watch and discuss films by women. A bold film about social injustice against women, Nodijon again reminded me why we thought it's important to have this space.'

After the screening, filmmaker Shahneoyaj Cacoly and actor Pran Roy participated in a lively Q and A discussion session, moderated by renowned Bangladeshi actor Wahida Mollick.

Nodijon, deals with the social and marital consequences of a man divorcing his wife by using the verbal 'talaq' after suspecting her of adultery, and then realizing his mistake and wanting her back.

Set in a village, Ayan works on a boat owned by a rich man Fateh Ali. He is often away from the village for 10-12 days at a stretch to earn money, leaving his young wife Shamsi, who is a hair-seller, alone at home.

A broker comes to the village to buy hair from the women and becomes a good friend of Shamsi. A woman in the neighborhood disapproves of the friendship between them, and goes around gossiping about a 'relationship' between the two.

Ayan returns home, hears about the gossip, beats up his wife and the broker, and verbally divorces her. He later discovers that there was no adultery,and wants to take her back. However, religion prohibits this because, as per religious laws, she must first marry another man and get divorced from him before reuniting with her first husband.

Shamsi thus marries 70-year-old Fateh Ali. Ali, however, refuses to divorce her upon learning that she is pregnant, as he wants the child. He beats up Ayan and throws him into the river, but Ayan survives.

The film is produced by Faridur Reza Sagor and Ebne Hasan Khan, and written by Sheikh Zahirul Hoque.

The 135-minute-long film's screenplay, cinematography, and direction was done by Shahneoyaj Cacoly.

Through Her Eyes aims to give film enthusiasts, film students, academics, film professionals, funding agencies, broadcasters, rights groups and journalists a regular opportunity to watch films by women film-makers currently working in Bangladesh, and to interact with them directly at the end of the screening.
383
Developing entrepreneurial mindsets, competencies and practices at an early age will most likely have long-lasting and transformational effects on students' readiness for a university education and individual career planning, enabling them to become future leaders both in the business world and in their own communities, according to a recent statement from Goethe-institut.

Believing in this kind of transformation, Goethe-institut Jordan and the German Institute for Economic Education (IÖB, University of Oldenburg), in cooperation with the German-Jordanian University, as well as five Jordanian schools, launched the project "Entrepreneurship in school practices in Jordan" in 2019, the statement said.

The main goal of the project is to lay the foundations for teacher trainings and curriculum development for entrepreneurial thinking and 21st Century competencies in participating schools, which included the Ahliyyah School for Girls and the Bishop's School for Boys, Al Assriyya Schools, the Islamic Educational College (Jubaiha and Jabal Amman), Al Saadah Schools and the Jubilee School.

As a first step, directors of the partner schools travelled to the city of Oldenburg in the north of Germany to gather and exchange ideas on entrepreneurship education in workshops organised by the partnering Institute for Economic Education, the statement said.

The principals "welcomed the opportunity" to network, share experiences and hear about new ideas for entrepreneurship education.

"The most important aspect gained from the trip was the networking, which was an important step to exchange the ideas of the two educational systems," one of the participants was quoted in the statement as saying.

Based on the discussions during this encounter, two pilot teacher trainings took place focusing on project management, career planning and teaching methods in entrepreneurship education. The trainings were accompanied by tailor-made material and handouts ready to be used in the classrooms. Teachers were encouraged to put what they learned into action by receiving a fund for school projects, the statement said.

The students' project ideas reflected environmental awareness and sustainability. Student entrepreneurs said that they wished to create businesses that enable them to have a "good impact on society", and they were very proud of their achievements. "I believe in giving equal opportunities to those with unequal conditions, so I took the opportunity to design a product for people with disabilities," one of the participating students said in the statement.

Laura Hartz, director of Goethe-institut Jordan, said: "The success of this pilot year gives a great perspective for the next phase of the project starting in 2020. This phase will again provide more teacher trainings but also introduce a train-the-trainer component."

The project is funded by the German Federal Foreign Office within the German-Arab Transformational Partnership Programme, the statement noted.
384
Tenders are invited for Project management friedrich-ebert str.

Goethe-institut e.v. - head office january 17, 20 published: december 13, 2019

Award procedure: Services
385
Spending on research and academics is more important than spending on statues, felt panellists at a session at the Times Litfest on Sunday."Spending on statues is a complete waste of money. The Statue of Unity has failed to unite us," said S V Raman, programme director of Goethe-institut, Kolkata. Speaking about the credit war that ensued among political parties with the launch of Chandrayaan 2, he said, "Take credit where it is due, but remember it is a long process. Development must take priority over political matters."Adding to it, faculty member at the department of physical sciences, IISER-Kolkata, Rajesh Kumble Nayak said, "Such credit wars cannot hit the morale of Indian scientists. In the end, India should progress."When asked about the venture between Roscosmos and ISRO, he said, "Ventures can go only as far as providing a few components. Technology is always a closely guarded secret. So we must develop and master our own technology." He also suggested that the moon could be used to set up a launchpad for deep-space missions.Director of Birla Industrial & Technological Museum V S Ramachandran, said, "As far as spending on space research and missions is concerned, we implement missions at a cost that is a lot less than what is spent by other nations. Moon missions were ignored by the US and Russia after the Cold War. With Chandrayaan, India brought back the world's focus on the moon. I'm sure that with Chandrayaan 3, and the manned mission to moon, we shall scale new heights."
386
Open Heritage Week is jointly being organized by EUNIC Bangladesh, Alliance Francaise de Dhaka, British Council Bangladesh, Goethe-institut Bangladesh, EU Delegation, Embassy of Spain, Dhaka South City Corporation, Bulbul Academy of Fine Arts, and Institute of Architects Bangladesh

Open Heritage Week 2019, a cultural event initiative of the European Union Institutes for Culture (EUNIC), began at Lalkuthi (Northbrook Hall) yesterday at 10:30am.

Open Heritage Week is jointly being organized by EUNIC Bangladesh, Alliance Francaise de Dhaka, British Council Bangladesh, Goethe-institut Bangladesh, EU Delegation, Embassy of Spain, Dhaka South City Corporation, Bulbul Academy of Fine Arts, and Institute of Architects Bangladesh.

Through this event the organizers aim to create an awareness and reimagination of Dhaka city for coming generations in Bangladesh. It involves visiting heritage buildings, exhibitions, performances, open forum, workshops, and lectures on architectural heritage at the seven venues of the event at the British Council, Alliance Francaise, Goethe-institut, Institute of Architects Bangladesh, Beauty Boarding, Lalkuthi, and the Bulbul Academy of Fine Arts (BAFA) in Old Dhaka's Wise Ghat Road.

Advocating for an Open Heritage Week in Bangladesh follows the observation that many cultural heritage sites are already well preserved and accessible as national monuments. Nonetheless, there is much beyond these grand sites that are normally not open to the public. As such, EUNIC wanted to take this initiative which aims to open everyday life heritage places around the city that often go disregarded and are under continuous threat of disappearance for their real estate value. EUNIC aims to bring government and non government organizations together, for a preserved and accessible cultural heritage.

The first day of the event began with an inauguration ceremony yesterday at 10:30am at Lalkuthi (Northbrook Hall). The ceremony was followed by a walk to Beauty Boarding and BAFA. The first day ended with the exhibition Recalling, being held simultaneously at all three venues mentioned above till 8pm. The exhibition will continue at the same venues till 8pm today as well.

Today at Institute of Architects Bangladesh, Agargaon, open forum Conservation of Built Heritage in Old Dhaka: Opportunities and Challenges, will start at 6pm.

The Recalling exhibition will officially end on Sunday. On Monday there will be an open lecture on Old Dhaka and its heritage at the British Council, from 5:30pm to 6:30pm.

On Tuesday, there will be a digital photography exhibition at the British Council from 10am to 4pm. Another such exhibition will be on from 3pm to 6:30pm at the Goethe-institut on the same day. Both these exhibitions will be open for viewing till Friday 13, day eight of the event. Tuesday 5:30pm, there will be another exhibition at the Alliance Francaise, Tales of Old Dhaka by Joloj. This exhibition will be open every day from 3pm to 9pm till day eight of the event. On December 14, day nine of the festival, this exhibition will be open from 9am to 12pm.

The closing ceremony of the entire event will be held from 5:30pm to 7pm at BAFA on December 15. The event will be followed by a presentation of Qawwali songs.
387
Night Under the Stars (NUTS), a music development programme by the Goethe-institut Namibia, will end the year on a high note tomorrow with Adora, ML, Kay Sax and DJ Mdu. Hosted by Ashwyn Mberi, doors will opens at 19h00 and entrance to the show is free.

"This year has been as unique as any other, but in particular during May, we hosted the first remote concert at Tsumeb that included DJ Mdu. That was a great success and it will be a pleasure to see Mdu and the other musicians on the NUTS stage," Goethe-Namibia cultural programmes coordinator Michelle Namases said.

Performers for the finale are all diverse and unique in their sound and performances and will, without a doubt, showcase this.

"Throughout the year, we had fantastic performers showcase their talent, and tomorrow we get to witness some of them on one stage."

New to the NUTS stage is energetic and spontaneous Adora, who is known on the local music scene for appearances at the annual Windhoek Jazz Festival and for conducting development projects with pupils.

"Music and the human voice are beautiful tools [which] I think can be used for character development, motivation and the preservation of cultural heritage amongst the youth of Namibia," Adora said.

She added that the public should not miss the finale. "I have done music for commercial purposes, but putting a group of musicians on one stage can only be magical," she said.

Contributing to the anticipated magic will be Kay Sax and his unique style of music, combining the sound of the sax with electronic beats, and ignited percussion by DJ Mdu.

"My style is unique and like no other because my instrument was assembled by myself. I did not want a standard brass sax, so I painted it myself. A sax is not always about the instrument, but more about the person playing it. The way in which I wave my skills is different. You must come and feel my energy," he said.

Gracing the stage again with authentic lyrics and traditional beats will be ML. "This has been quite a year for me, and appearing on the NUTS stage during August was one of many milestones I appreciate. I strongly believe music is a versatile tool that could contribute to Namibia's economic development." She is currently working on her third album which will, no doubt, surpass the popularity of her previous two bodies of work.
388
The event is open to everyone. Seating will be on a first come first serve basis. Gate opens at 6:30 pm

Goethe-institut Bangladesh, in cooperation with Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy, will host a jazz concert by the Charlotte Greve's Lisbeth Quartet, based in New York City and Berlin, at the Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy's Experimental Theatre Hall on Sunday at 7 pm.

According to a press release, Dr Kirsten Hackenbroch, director of the Goethe-institut, is expected to inaugurate the concert. The jazz quartet will feature Charlotte Greve on the saxophone, Manuel Schmiedel on the piano, Igor Spallati on bass, and Moritz Baumgartner on drums.

Charlotte Greve's Lisbeth Quartett was awarded an Echo Jazz - the biggest German music prize - as newcomer of the year 2012, for its second album Constant Travellers. The follow-up Framed Frequencies was also highly acclaimed internationally.

For their most recent album There Is Only Make, Charlotte Greve was awarded the Echo Jazz 2018 in the category national Saxophone/Woodwind.

According to a statement from Charlotte Greve in the press release: 'The new album was developed more from a band process than our earlier studio productions. Before we recorded, we carried the pieces with us for a longer time and performed them in many concerts together.'

The event is open to everyone. Seating will be on a first come first serve basis. Gate opens at 6:30 pm.
389
Tenders are invited for digital transformation Goethe-institut

Goethe-institut e.V. - zentrale 07.01.20published: 24.11.19

Award procedure: services

Offer period: 07.01.2020

Major organization : Goethe-institut EV - ZENTRALE

Address : 80333 Mnchen Bayern.
390
Nov. 24-- Nov. 24--AMMAN -- Goethe-institut Amman, together with artists Muath Isaeid and Nairuz Ajlouni, organised a public discussion on Saturday on the future of sound in the city, when the electric car will have replaced the internal combustion engine.

"With what sound is the endless noise of our streets replaced? How can we shape this paradigm shift to give our lives more pleasing sounds?" These were questions raised at the event at the Jordan National Gallery of Fine Arts.

"The idea of the whole project is to open up the fact that artists and the public can interfere and change city sounds through electric-powered transportation means," said Isaeid, a culture and programmes manager at Al Balad Theatre in Amman who is mainly known for curating and organising murals around the city and the street art festival "Baladk".

"It is important to think about sound as we progress with technology," Isaeid told The Jordan Times.

Participants in the event took part in a "conscious sound walking tour" around the venue, paying attention to "notice surrounding sounds and reflect on city sounds", according to the artist.

In September, Isaeid created a performance with German producer Tanja Krone and Zeitraumexit art centre in Mannheim in Germany titled "E-sound of silence", which was funded by Goethe-institut and gave way to Saturday's event, according to the artist.

Krone and Isaeid have also organised a two-part workshop for German and Jordanian sound artists, with the participation of Jordanians Nairuz Ajlouni and Amjad Shahrour. One part was carried out in Mannheim in September and the second part will happen in Amman in the summer of next year.

"The extensive feedback of the public discussion will help us in steering and formulating the upcoming workshop," Isaeid noted.

"The sounds that we hear in our daily lives here in Amman are imprinted in our being," the artist said, adding: "The audience confirmed that Amman has a unique urban sound, for example the gas car sounds, the mobile vegetable sellers and the scrap collecting cars shouting, the sound of the Adhan and the high volume of beeping cars."
391

German Ambassador to Pakistan Bernhard Schlagheck on Sunday underlined the importance of people-to-people contacts and exchange between the societies of Germany and Pakistan to enhance bilateral relations.

He expressed these views while welcoming alumni of German exchange study programmes during an alumni meeting at his residence.

The cultural section of the German embassy in Islamabad had organised the German-Pakistan Alumni Network to strengthen ties between former German scholarship awardees from Pakistan and the German embassy.

More than a hundred Pakistanis, who visited Germany on different scholarship programmes such as the German Academic Exchange Service (DAAD) Scholarship, the Alexander von Humboldt scholarship, Cross-Culture Programme scholarship and other programmes either for studies, research or professional trainings, took part in the meeting.

Participants of subject-related short-term trips to Germany offered by the German Federal Foreign Office as well as German-language teachers who attended trainings in Germany funded by the Goethe-institut took part in the alumni meeting.

Schlagheck added that more and more Pakistanis are now interested in either studying or conducting research in Germany. He added that currently, over 4,000 Pakistani students are studying in Germany and that the German-Pakistan Alumni Network hopes to grow exponentially soon with the addition of these students.

'They (Pakistani students) are attracted by the high-quality education and a conducive research environment [of Germany],' the envoy said, adding that with its exchange programmes, the German government supports students, scholars and professionals to gain experience in Germany, advance their career and broaden their horizon on a professional, cultural and personal level.

Later, the alumni shared their experience of living in and studying in Germany.

As part of the event, the German organisation Deutsche Gesellschaft fr Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) hosted an interactive panel where they provided insight into their activities in Pakistan, especially in the renewable energy and climate change sectors. They also detailed their experience of interacting with representatives from the government and the private sector.

Later, participants also discussed their expectations and ideas for an active German-Pakistan Alumni network for the future.

The event ended with a cultural performance by dancers Asfandyar Khattak and Alina Chaudry.
392
Over the last three months, Nila has revisited three decades of her life rummaging through family albums. Now a fully transitioned transwoman, she pulls out a studio-shot family photograph from when she was still a boy of about three, staring blankly into the camera with his parents seated beside him, as they got their little social unit photographed for posterity.But the 34-year-old's own idea as well as subsequent 'family' portraits have since been radically redefined through her adolescence and adult years, as she grew closer to her identity and formed an almost filial bond with members of the trans community. Nila is one of the nine young photo artists in the city reframing the family photograph out of its conventional structure and turning it into a vibrant testimony of the changing times, dynamics and interpersonal relationships inside modern-day homes. The programme is part of a residency, 'Reimagining Family Portraiture', organised by Alliance Française of Madras, Goethe-institut Chennai and Chennai Photo Biennale Foundation, and supported by the Franco-German Cultural Fund.The project has given way to an insightful series of photographs and archival material that artists from Chennai, Sri Lanka, Nepal, Bangladesh, Bengaluru, Mumbai and Kolkata have used to create a visual narrative exploring not just the times gone by and a changing future, but evolving roles of parents and children.Redefining the 21st century family portrait with women who have turned primary breadwinners, Mumbai-based Abhishek Anupam follows families with inspiring matriarchal figuressingle and working mothers and women who choose to adopt. ôMy mother worked and my father often helped with the chores. With the changing roles of women in the familial ecosystem, I want to understand what the future holds,ö he says.For Chennai-born photographer C K Vijaykumar, the loss of his mother while he was in the US prompted him to explore how globalisation has disrupted family structures. Following parents in Chennai and Bengaluru through their video calls with children living abroad, his portraits show NRI children on laptop screens next to parents seated in their living rooms in India. ôI found it ironic that technology, which has contributed to young people moving away from their families, is also helping ease the pain of separation,ö he says. ôBut these virtual interactions don't necessarily bridge the gap.öAlliance Francaise of Madras director Bruno Plasse says the idea for the residency came from a research project in Puducherry, where old negatives of studio-shot family photographs were being developed. ôIt made us realise how this had transformed into selfies and Instagram posts, and how families themselves had evolved,ö he says.The works will be presented in a multimedia showcase and as zines at the Goethe-institut on November 17 at 5pm.
393
As part of the German Language Weeks 2019, the Austrian Embassy has organised a series of events starting with an Austrian documentary film screening about the life story of Austrian businessman Julius Madritsch, who employed approximately 1,000 Jews in his sewing factories in Poland from 1940 to 1944.

Julius Madritsch -- A Righteous among the Nations, will be screened on November 18 at Skala Theatre in Larnaca, following a screening in Nicosia this week. The documentary chronicles how Julius, with the support of his fellow Austrians Raimund Titsch and Oswald Bouska, managed to save the lives of hundreds of people. In 1964 all three of them were granted the medal Righteous Among the Nations by Yad Vashem.

This event is free and organised in cooperation with the Wiener-Krakauer Kultur-Gesellschaft, the Friends of the Cinema Society and the Larnaka-Famagusta Cinema Society.

Coming up next is a concert in Nicosia that spreads its music across checkpoints and barriers, both physical and mental.

Trios 3 is a unique kind of musical meeting that will take place on November 25 at Pallas Theatre comprising a trio from the bi-communal Cyprus Chamber Orchestra consisting of Nihat Aý-daç on violin, GÈ­rhan Nuray on cello and Andri Hadjiandreou on piano. The CCO brings Greek and Turkish Cypriot musicians together to play at the highest level, promoting peace in Cyprus through the power of music.

On the night, they will perform works by Beethoven from Germany, Schubert from Austria and Raff from Switzerland, thus fitting into the theme of the German Language Weeks. The event is co-organised by the Embassies of Austria, Switzerland and the Goethe-institut Cyprus and is free to attend.

Austrian Embassy Events for the German Language Weeks 2019

Documentary film screening about how Julius Madritsch employed approximately a thousand Jews in his sewing factories in Poland from 1940 to 1944. November 18. Skala Theatre, Larnaca. 8.30pm. Free. Chamber concert by the bi-communal Cyprus Chamber Orchestra. November 25. Pallas Theatre, Nicosia. 8pm. Free

The post Austrian culture brought to Cyprus audiences appeared first on Cyprus Mail .
394
Tenders are invited for maintenance extension commvault

Pilgrimage town werl 25.11.19published: 06.11.19

Award procedure: services

Offer period: 29.11.2019

Major organization : Goethe-institut EV - ZENTRALE

Address : 80333 Mnchen Bayern.
395
Tenders are invited for equipment from the library of the Goethe-institut in rio de janeiro with rfid

County town of unna 28.11.19published: 05.11.19

Award procedure: services

Offer period: 26.11.2019

Major organization : Goethe-institut EV - ZENTRALE

Address : 80333 Mnchen Bayern.
396
Tenders are invited for replacement bridge over the schkortelbach in schkortleben - bridge construction

Goethe-institut e.V. - zentrale 26.11.19published: 05.11.19

Award procedure: construction services

Offer period: 21.11.2019

Major organization : STADT WEIENFELS

Address : 06688 Schkortleben

Country :Germany.
397
"Sites of Memory", a sound exhibition at Darat Al Funun's Lab brings to life memories of places of importance in Jordan's history.

Recordings of personal stories provide "unique access" to often-unknown aspects of the country's diverse cultural heritage, a statement from the orgainsers said.

The exhibition narrates individual stories, provoking the listener to question and rethink how and what people remember in relation to various sites across the country.

The sites include: Ali Pasha Abdyeh Street (Mafraq), Al Muqariya Village (Shobak, Maan), Sheikh Irshid Mosque (Ramtha, Irbid), The Duke's Diwan (Amman), Palace of Al Alali-Kleib Shreyda Palace (Tubnah, Irbid), Maan Stream (Maan), Castle Street (Karak), Old Maan Market (Maan), Al Rawsha Cafe (Al Zarqa), Diwan Al Majali (Karak) and Diwan Methqal (Um Al Amad, Amman).

The exhibition is the final public event of the research project "Our Memory", which is jointly realised by Goethe-institut, the Institut Français de Jordanie, the Institut Français du Proche Orient and the National Library of Jordan, as well as the University of Yarmouk, the University of Mutah, Al Hussein Bin Talal University and the University of Jordan, read the statement.

Oral traditions are "strong" in Jordan, but are "rarely used" as sources of documenting and analysing the history of various sites of memory around the country, the statement said.

Responding to the need to document and preserve such narratives, the project "Our Memory" worked with young researchers to conduct fieldwork and engage with local communities to preserve their stories, the statement added.

Using the recordings of these stories, the exhibition shows "how historical sites have been used in more recent events, how their meaning has shifted, and why local communities might relate to such sites in very different ways".

The exhibition creates a space for a more "inclusive understanding" of Jordan's social history, while also "meditating on the relationship between tangible and intangible cultural heritage", the statement said.

It runs until November 10 and is open daily from 10 am to 6 pm.

The exhibition is part of the Cultural Heritage Days in Jordan, which was made possible through funds from the EUNIC and the EU, while the project "Our Memory" received funding from the Franco-German Cultural Fund, the statement concluded.
398
The 25th Kolkata International Film Festival has set a new record. The highest number of entries and films will be screened - 2,492 and 366 respectively - from 76 countries at this year's KIFF. Those films will be screened at 17 venues that include single-screen theatres such as Minar, Bijali, Priya, Navina, Ajanta and New Empire, and Radha Studio, now called Cinema Centenary Bhavan, among others. "There are five competition sections. We will be giving a prize money of Rs 51 lakh for the Best Film and Rs 21 lakh for Best Director in the international section," revealed festival chairman Raj Chakraborty. Germany will be the focus country with 42 critically acclaimed films. "Germany is a world leader in technology. One of the nine categories is early Indo-German co-productions. Shiraz: A Romance of India (1928), Prapanch Pash: A Throw of Dice (1929) and Achhut Kanya (1936) will be shown," stated Vivek Kumar, director general of KIFF and principal secretary of the information and cultural affairs department. The first two are silent films co-produced and starring Himansu Rai, while the third one, featuring Ashok Kumar and Devika Rani, is a Hindi-Urdu production, produced again by Rai. All three films are directed by Franz Osten. "Many of the oldest Indian films were actually shot by acclaimed German filmmakers like Osten and Josef Wirsching who also served crucial role in the core team of Bombay Talkies," revealed Friso Maecker, director of Goethe-institut. Some classic German films like 'Nosferatu', 'Dr Mabuse' and 'Metropolis' will also be screened.
399
This experience will transfer Kafka's work from the pages of the book to virtual-reality (VR)

This year, Dhaka Lit Fest (DLF) visitors can experience Kafka's famous Metamorphosis through virtual reality.

From November 7 to 9, the Goethe-institut Bangladesh will organize the virtual reality show called, VRwandlung at the Bangla Academy premises during DLF .

The VR installation's title, VRwandlung is an adaptation of the book's original German title, Die Verwandlung.

The virtual-reality (VR) adaptation of the book will invite you into the home of the protagonist Gregor Samsa, a travelling salesman who wakes up one morning to find himself transformed into a giant insect.

The experience starts by putting on shoes, gloves - both sensors for the VR - and a VR headset. The tour of Samsa's room in the old town of Prague begins.

Kafka's novella of the giant insect turns into a four-minute experience. There are dozens of objects including the protagonist's iron bed with rumpled linens, the peeling floral wallpaper, and manuscripts scattered chaotically on the desk. The mirror reflects the image of the viewer as a monstrous insect with long feelers, and a thick shell. The metamorphosis progresses with the help of acoustics, and visual effects.

Mika Johnson, a Finnish-American multimedia artist directed the realistic simulations. For seven weeks, thirty artists, and experts worked on Samsa's room.

The impressive VR rendering has been touring across the world, stopping in cities such as Athens, Seoul, and Tokyo since its premiere at the Goethe-institut Prague last year.

Now the virtual reality version of the world classic by Franz Kafka will open for the Bangladeshi audiences.

VRwandlung works for Kafka fans, and for anyone who has never read Kafka. Everyone can interpret it as they wish. What remains is a unique experience of your mind going to a place where your body is not.

Jan Tompkins, member of the VRwandlung team, will be at the Dhaka Lit Fest as a speaker to introduce visitors to the work.
400
The 25th edition of Kolkata International Film Festival (KIFF) will be flagged off with a gala inaugural show at the Netaji Indoor stadium on November 8. A galaxy of stars, including Amitabh Bachchan, Shah Rukh Khan, Rakhi Gulzar and Mahesh Bhatt, will grace the occasion. As part of the silver jubilee celebrations, films will be screened in the 35mm celluloid format at Sisir Mancha and Radha Studio. The festival will also include 3D films for the first time. This will be an attraction for children.Ã´Germany will be the focus country this year. As many as 42 films from the country will be screened at the festival in collaboration with Max Mueller Bhavan,Ã¶ information and cultural affairs secretary Vivek Kumar said at a press conference on Friday.In the homage section, six films of Bernardo Bertolucci will be screened. According to Kumar, the festival will also pay homage to Mrinal Sen, Girish Karnad, Mohammed Zahur Khayyam, Swarup Dutta, Chinmoy Roy, Vidya Sinha and Ruma Guha Thakurta. There will also be a centenary tribute for outstanding film personalities like Gillo Pontecorvo of Italy, Manna Dey, Jahar Roy, Arabinda Mukherjee and Karuna Bandyopadhyay. Retrospectives of eminent directorsDusan Hanak of Czechoslovakia and Alexander Kluge of Germanywill also be screened.During the festival's inauguration, a website on 100 years of Bengali cinema will be launched. Goopy Gayen and Bagha Bayen, which is celebrating its 50th year, will be screened at the inaugural show. An exhibition will be launched by Goethe-institut/ Max Mueller Bhavan director Friso Maeker on the life of Reiner Warner Fassbinder, a German actor, on November 9.State minister Aroop Biswas, who is the chief advisor of the film festival, said the event is aiming at reaching out to common people for which some new theatres have been included. Indranil Sen, junior information minister, said the prize money for the film festival this time is Rs 51 lakh and the best director will get Rs 21lakh. This time, 367 films will be screened, which had been selected out of 2,492 films from 76 countries.
401
HRH Princess Rym on Tuesday attended the closing ceremony of the European Union National Institutes for Culture (EUNIC) Jordan's second edition of "Heritage Days", which featured the screening of four Jordanian-produced short films and the opening of the Belgian Hejaz Wagon "Cinema on Wheels".

The ceremony took place at the Amman Train Station, with the attendance of the ambassadors of Belgium, the EU Delegation and France as well as representatives from the public and private sectors, according to a EUNIC statement.

The event followed a month of activities organised by EUNIC Jordan aiming to highlight shared cultural heritage and "encourage everyone to become actively involved in the safeguarding of Jordan's heritage for present and future generations", according to the EU Jordan website.

Conducted within the framework of "supporting creative industries in Jordan", the first project showcased on Tuesday saw Belgian writer and producer Kevin Meul train young Jordanian students of the Zarqa Film House over the course of three months to produce four fictional short films screened to the audience during the ceremony.

The second project saw the transformation of an old Belgian train wagon used on the historic Amman-Hejaz Railway into a cinema on wheels.

The restored wagon, dating back to the 1950s, will serve as an on-wheels cinema to screen documentary short productions of the railway's history, said Director of the Amman Railway Station Salah Louzi.

The wagon will be displayed as a permanent artefact at the Hejaz Railway Museum, which is currently being restored in the southern city of Maan.

The Embassy of Belgium, the Royal Heritage Directorate, the Royal Film Commission and the Jordan Hejaz Railway Corporation inaugurated the two projects.

An exhibition of "rare photos" of the Hejaz Railway was also presented at the event in cooperation with Goethe-institut and the Royal Heritage Directorate, and will remain at the Amman Railway Station, now open to the public, for the period of one month.
402
The Goethe-institut Cyprus is launching a new film series presenting a selection of the best German-language films from the most prestigious German film festival -- the Berlinale with the Berlinale Selection 2019 being shown from November 5 to 30. The film series allows audiences in Cyprus to get to know the best works in German contemporary cinema with the focus on current winners of this German film award.

The programme includes new works by well-known filmmakers such as Oscar winner Caroline Link and Andreas Dresen, as well as exciting film debuts by David Nawrath and Nora Fingscheidt, who won a Silver Bear with her debut film System Crasher.

In line with the festival motto of 2019 'the private is political', the Goethe-institut Cyprus is showing five films, which show in a suspenseful, dramatic or tragi-comical way how people come to terms with their destiny and how much the political and private influence one another.

All About Me (Der Junge muss an die frische Luft) tells the childhood story of famous German comedian Hape Kerkeling, who, despite his gift of humour, fails to help his mother conquer her depression. Young actor Julius Weckauf, who received the Young Actors Award for his performance, brilliantly portrays him.

"System Crasher is the marvel of this Berlinale!" wrote die WELT. With great casting, Helena Zengel lends Benni's expressive fury a delicate face. System Crasher was screened at numerous festivals following Berlinale, where it received multiple awards. Among them are the 23rd Sofia International Film Festival Award for Best Director, the Molodist -- 47th International Film Festival Kiev Award of the Ecumenical Jury as well as the 30th International Film Festival Emden-Norderney, where it received two further awards. At the Berlinale this film was screened in the Competition Section and received the Silver Bear Alfred Bauer Award.

In I Was At Home, But... Maren Eggert takes on the role of Astrid and explores the entire emotional spectrum of motherhood and existence, frustration, defensiveness, love. At the Berlinale this film was screened in the Competition Section and received the Silver Bear for Best Director.

The theatre star Rainer Bock, who among others played in The White Ribbon by Michael Haneke and Inglourious Basterds by Quentin Tarantino plays the leading role in Nawrath's dense film debut Atlas (The Mover). "Bock is someone who can make the invisible visible. Bock is someone who -- through a sharp glance, a turning of the head, menacing furrows -- transforms in minutes a minimum of text into living people, playing out the physical states of their psyches," Die Welt Am Sonntag wrote.

The series concludes with the award-winning film Gundermann, which received six German film awards in 2019: Best Feature Film, Best Direction, Best Leading Actor, Best Screenplay, Best Production Design and Best Costume Design. The singer Gerhard 'Gundermann' is brilliantly portrayed by Alexander Scheer. "This is one of the richest, most differentiated, greatest films about the GDR. And perhaps the best that Dresen ever made, because his philanthropy here cannot end up in the parking lot of reconciliation. There remains something open in Gundermann," wrote Spiegel online.

With these exciting, comical and moving films the Goethe-institut Cyprus is presenting the best of modern German film.

Berlinale Selection 2019 is taking place within the framework of the Weeks of the German language.

Berlinale

Film series presenting a selection of the best German language films from the most prestigious German film festival -- the Berlinale. November 5-30. ARTos Foundation, Nicosia. Technopolis 20, Paphos. www.goethe.de/cyprus/berlinaleselection

The post November pays tribute to German films appeared first on Cyprus Mail .
403
After the success of the first Karachi Biennale in 2017, Karachi Biennale Trust (KBT) inaugurated the Second Karachi Biennale (KB) at Bagh Ibne Qasim. As Pakistan's largest contemporary art event, The Second Karachi Biennale KB19 presented98 instillations created by more than 100 multidisciplinary artists from over 16 countries themed around Ecology.

The event began with Ayesha Tammy Haq as the master of the ceremony as she introduced KBT Chief Executive Officer and Managing Trustee Niilofer Furrukh on to the stage. The latter welcomed esteemed guests by highlighting the importance of bringing ecology through art into the foreground followed by KB Curator Muhammad Zeeshan, who spoke about the artists and installations that are featured at VM Gallery, Karachi Zoo, NED City Campus, Alliance Francaise, Frere Hall, IVS Gallery and Bagh Ibne Qasim. Following up Muhammad Zeeshan, Mayor of Karachi Mr Wasim Akhtar extended his support for the initiative and encouraged more such activities to take place across Pakistan. Ms Bushra Hussain, Chair Person of Prize Committee distributed prizes to Rashid Rana. Following up the prize distribution, KBT team took audience members on a guided tour of some instillation that included the following artists, Usman Haque, Quddus Mirza, Sara Pagganwala, Amin Gulgee, Waheeda Baloch, Natasha Jozi, Tamrat Gezahegne, Zain Ahmed, Sheema Kermani & Qinza Najm.

The evening was attended by artists, educationalists, personalities alike including Chief Guest Mr Waseem Akhtar - Mayor of Karachi, Amin Gulgee, Atteqa Malik, Ayesha Tammy Haq, Bushra Hussain, Farzana Tunio, Imran Qureshi, Italian Consul General with Carlo Galli, Rashid Rana, RM Naeem, Shakira Masood, Stefan Winkler - Director Goethe-institut, along with Susanne Kriemann and Sacha Kaganto name a few.

Taking place from October 26th to November 12th, KB19 is supported by innumerable public and private partnerships. The Mayor and the City Government have generously made available the Karachi Zoo, Frere Hall and Bagh Ibne Qasim as venues for exhibitions. Alliance Francaise de Karachi, British Council, Goethe-institut, the Consulate of Italy and ProHelvetia Swiss Arts Council have been instrumental in the participation of artists from their countries. All other venue partners are hosting KB19 at their spaces.

Indeed, The Karachi Biennale Trust (KBT) was founded, in 2016, by a group of visual art professionals and educators as a dynamic platform to promote creativity, innovation and criticality in the visual arts. KBT -a not-for-profit organisation- has remained a citizens' initiative supported by the corporate sector. It works closely with a network of local and international cultural, educational and philanthropic organisations.

At the opening of the 2nd edition of Karachi Biennale, a jury comprising of local and foreign members announced Rashid Rana's art installation as the best work in the mega exhibition with 98 local and international artists with their work display at 7 different venues all over the cosmopolitan city of Karachi.

The installation unfolds in two parts; a video projection and a photo montage. In the performative video, Rashid Rana evokes reference to the iconic painting.

Wanderer above the Sea of Fog by Caspar David Friedrich, as Rana stands amidst one of the largest garbage dumping sites in Pakistan called Kachra Khundi (located near village Jam Chakro about 20 kilometres away from the main city of Karachi). The structure of work reminds of a painting from past but it also repeats/relates to one's own reality. Of being exposed to waste, especially in the port city of Karachi.

In the second part of the installation viewers come across a photo montage that appears to be seascape from distance but on closer inspection reveals images of trash and waste plastic bags in great numbers, giving the illusion of sea waves with pictures of sailing ships inserted within. Seascape, images of garbage and illustrations of vessels are three chapters of the same story which refers to colonialism and then consumerism that produced affluence (as well as 'refuse') far beyond its need or control.

Widely considered to be one of the leading artists working in South Asia today, Rashid Rana emerged in the early years of this century as the most energetic and productive representative of an entirely new kind of art from Pakistan. He has shown extensively at various at various galleries and museums in Pakistan and abroad. His works are in prestigious collections such as British Museum London, Metropolitan Museum New York and Fukuoka Museum Japan.

He is the founding faculty member and currently the dean of the School of Visual Arts and Design at the Beaconhouse National University, Lahore. Rana is a recipient of the 2017 Asia Art Award presented by the Asia Society, and was awarded International Artist of the Year by South Asian Visual Arts Collective (SVAC) Canada in 2003.
404
Goethe-institut Bangladesh hosted an artist talk titled 'Geographies of Imagination' by Olani Ewunnet from the SAVVY Contemporary, Berlin of Germany at its auditorium in the capital's Dhanmondi area recently.

Olani Ewunnet is an urban designer, researcher and sound artist living in Berlin. Her practice largely examines the inter and intra border signifiers of African sonics, urbanism and design typologies.

In her introductory speech, Olani Ewunnet mentioned, "Geographies of Imagination, in its Berlin iteration, was SAVVY Contemporary's first step towards this idea of dis-othering, towards the reimagining and dismantling of the cartographies of power inherent in the creation of the West and non-West. We are deeply honoured to join this year's Dhaka Art Summit, to reflect with this constellation of perspectives on what dis-othering might mean in this context."

During her talk, Olani Ewunnet discussed her work with the art space SAVVY Contemporary, focusing on the ongoing research project Geographies of Imagination. An essential part of the project is a timeline on cartographic power, which was first rooted in SAVVY Contemporary's locality in Berlin, the place that hosted the 1884 Congo Conference. For the Dhaka Art Summit 2020, this cartographic timeline will be further developed and activated, taking this time Dhaka itself as a starting and dialogical pivot from which to draw new lines and connections. Later, Olani Ewunnet took part in a Q&A session moderated by Ruxmini Choudhury, Assistant Curator of the Samdani Art Foundation, and answered various questions to the audience.

Diana Campbell Betancourt, Artistic Director, Samdani Art Foundation, in her concluding remark, thanked the Goethe-institut Bangladesh for their support and said that their assistant curator Ruxmini was able to travel to Berlin and be inspired by the research and bold thinking of SAVVY contemporary. The event was organized by Goethe-institut Bangladesh, in association with the Samdani Art Foundation (SAF) and SAVVY Contemporary, Berlin.
405
During her talk, Ewunnet discussed her work with the art space SAVVY Contemporary, focusing on the ongoing research project Geographies of Imagination

Goethe-institut Bangladesh hosted an artist talk titled Geographies of Imagination by Olani Ewunnet from the SAVVY Contemporary, Berlin on Thursday evening at its auditorium.

Ewunnet is an urban designer, researcher, and sound artist living in Berlin. Her practice largely examines the inter, and intra border signifiers of African sonics, urbanism, and design typologies. Ewunnet currently works with Kere Architecture / Kere Foundation and is the founder of the Selamawi Project, a traditional instrument construction program in Addis Ababa. Ewunnet is the core researcher for Geographies of Imagination in both Berlin, and Dhaka.

In her introductory statement, Ewunnet mentioned that Geographies of Imagination, in its Berlin iteration, was SAVVY Contemporary's first step towards this idea of 'dis-othering,' towards the reimagining, and dismantling of the cartographies of power inherent in the creation of the West, and non-West.

'We are deeply honoured to join this year's Dhaka Art Summit, to reflect with this constellation of perspectives on what dis-othering might mean in this context," she said.

During her talk, Ewunnet discussed her work with the art space SAVVY Contemporary, focusing on the ongoing research project Geographies of Imagination. An essential part of the project is a timeline on cartographic power, which was first rooted in SAVVY Contemporary's locality in Berlin, the place that hosted the 1884 Congo Conference.

For the Dhaka Art Summit 2020, this cartographic timeline will be further developed and activated, taking this time, Dhaka itself can develop as a starting and dialogical pivot from which to draw new lines, and connections.

Later, Ewunnet took part in a Q and A session moderated by Ruxmini Choudhury, Assistant Curator of the Samdani Art Foundation, and answered various questions from the audience.

Diana Campbell Betancourt, Artistic Director, Samdani Art Foundation, in her concluding remark, said that their assistant curator Ruxmini was able to travel to Berlin, and be inspired by the research and bold thinking of SAVVY contemporary.

'Their team shares our desire to debunk North America, and Europe as the comparative centres of art and culture against which the rest of the world is considered,' she commented.
406
The artist collective Doublelucky Productions on Thursday gave a lecture performance titled "True-You -- We Know How You Feel" at the Jordan National Gallery of Fine Arts in Amman. The event was held at the invitation of Goethe-institut, the German cultural association in Amman, according to organisers. Exploring newly developed machines that track how users feel, the collective examined the history of these machines, which reaches back to mediaeval times, and presented voice analysis micro-expression analysis and visualisation of brain waves as methods "to read the truth from the body, making the latest software, such as lie detectors, operate" . The collective is made up of Christiane K'hl and Chris Kondek, who are responsible for text, performance and video, Hannes Strobl, who is responsible for music, and Kim Albrecht, who is responsible for IT and data visualisation. During the performance, the collective mentioned a new system to be used by the European border control agency Frontex called iBorderCtrl, which uses an artificial intelligence lie-detecting system. "These technological developments are a global phenomenon," said performer K'hl in an interview with The Jordan Times, adding: "A lot of money can be made from machines that know how you feel." "I don't know if we really want that," said performer Kondek. "For me, the question is also: Can machines actually know how we feel and are emotions something that we can express mathematically?" IT specialist Albrecht added. "This event is the start of a whole series of events that we call technopocene," said Laura Hartz, the head of Goethe-institut in Amman, in an interview with The Jordan Times. The term "technopocene" is the proposed name for today's geological epoch, in which "new technologies shape almost all aspects of our lives", according to the institute's website. It is derived from the term "anthropocene", which is widely used in the humanities field to describe the current geological epoch in which earth is "fundamentally marked by humans", Hartz explained. "The possibilities of these machines and inventions really determine our lives everywhere," she said, adding: "It is also a little scary thinking about how far-reaching this is."
407
Showcasing artists from 16 countries, the 2nd Karachi Biennale (KB19) will be a citywide public art exhibition under the thematic Flight Interrupted: Eco-Leaks from the invasion desk.

As Pakistan's largest international contemporary art event it recognises environmental emergency as the defining issue of our times. The theme refers to the disappearance of low flying birds of Karachi because they lost their nesting place and freedom to fly unhindered

KB19 is the second iteration of the Karachi Biennale, an unprecedented endeavour connecting art, the city and the people, held in October 2017. Conceived by the Karachi Biennale Trust as a dynamic platform to promote creativity, innovation and criticality in the visual arts, it was formed by a group of visual art professionals and educators.

To ensure the urgency surrounding ecology at this 'green biennale' spreads far and wide, the curator of KB19 Muhammad Zeeshan, has selected a diverse mix of participants, "I have also invited architects and gardeners and engineers and sound technicians, theatre performers and story tellers to participate. KB19 will not just be received by artists but by everyone, thus my vision has been to include people from varying disciplines and from the public, so that their di?erent voices and messages will help our universal message spread faster and more e?ectively."

Visitors to the Biennale will navigate seven venues across the metropolis, where artists have created almost a hundred surprising and urgent projects: their ideas to embrace nature's 'welcoming arms' (Kahlil Gibran). Spaces range from colonial to contemporary, public parks to concrete dwellings. Over a dozen artists are showcasing their works at the Karachi Zoo, a space with some of the city's oldest trees that serves as the lungs of the densely populated area.

The Karachi Biennale exhibition venues are free and open to all. It will have an extensive public programming for everyone. For students, daily school tours and weekly college visits have been introduced to enhance their understanding of art and ecology. Keynote Talks by global and local scholars, discussions, guided tours for visitors promise an unforgettable cultural experience.

With a line-up of globally acclaimed artists, the public audiences will get an opportunity to see museum standard art in Karachi against the backdrop of its heritage sites. KB19 will not only unpack the city's relationship with nature, but also celebrate it and begin a global collaboration for healing and rejuvenation.

KB19 is supported by innumerable public and private partnerships. The Mayor and the City Government has generously made available the Karachi Zoo, Frere Hall and Bagh Ibne Qasim as venues for exhibitions. Alliance Francaise de Karachi, British Council, Goethe-institut, the Consulate of Italy and ProHelvetia Swiss Arts Council have been instrumental in the participation of artists from their countries. All other venue partners are hosting KB19 in their spaces.

Generous individuals, foundations and companies are behind the five KB19 prizes that recognize outstanding works and achievement. These include the previously established KB19 Mahvesh and Jahangir Siddiqui Foundation Juried Art Prize, and the Shahneela and Farhan Faruqui KB19 Popular Choice Art Prize, as well as 3 new prizes- the KB19 Peek Freans Emerging Artist Prize, KB19 Langdon-Malik Foundation Performance Art Prize, KB19 H M Habib Lifetime Achievement Award. The Performance Art Prize is one of a few in the world to honour artistic achievement in this genre and to inspire future performing artists to push their public engagement and artistic expression further.

KBT A global platform for excellence, criticality and innovation in the visual arts.

The Karachi Biennale Trust was founded, in 2016, by a group of visual art professionals and educators as a dynamic platform to promote creativity, innovation and criticality in the visual arts. KBT is a not-for-profit organization that is registered as a Trust.

This citizens' initiative works with a wide range of cultural and educational organizations at home and abroad and it is financially supported by philanthropic organizations and the private sector.

Karachi Biennale Trust is engaged in projects that promote art literacy, an awareness of art as a tool of social change, and art in the public space.

Karachi Biennale (KB) is the flagship project of the KBT that has been designed to use art as a vehicle to discover, discuss and respond to Karachi. Local and global issues are addressed through thematics. The first KB, invited artists to respond to the theme 'WITNESS', and in KB19 it will focus on Ecology.

"The Trust aims at creating a strong 'Public Art presence' in the city and initiate conversations on its role in vitalizing the environment."

The vision of KBT is to create a public audience for art and its projects which offer a chance to revisit Karachi's past, recognize its contemporary challenges and contribute to an optimistic reimagining of its future. KB has been conceived as an international art forum that penetrates the city with temporary exhibition spaces where innovative art from Pakistan and overseas is showcased.

Educational interventions to engage youth with art, as a transformative experience, is a vital part of the KBT mandate. We believe in discursive exchanges, research and art scholarship to achieve criticality. The Trust aims at creating a strong 'Public Art presence' in the city and initiate conversations on its role in vitalizing the environment.

Art, the city and its people will always be at the core of our initiatives.
408
A four-day Science Film Festival 2019 was recently held in Dhaka and Chattogram to enrich the knowledge of science among children.

The festival was organised by Goethe-institut Bangladesh in association with JAAGO Foundation, Children's Television Foundation of Bangladesh, University of Liberal Arts Bangladesh, PASCH-Schools: Partners for the Future, South Point School and College, Oxford International School, Maple Leaf International School and Mastermind International School.

The festival was inaugurated on October 12 at Maple Leaf International School's Nawab Ali Auditorium in Dhanmondi. Deputy head of mission at German embassy in Dhaka Burkhard Ducoffre and director at Centre for Sustainable Development of University of Liberal Arts Bangladesh Samiya Selim, among others, were present as honourable guests at the inaugural programme.

Director of Goethe-institut Bangladesh Kirsten Hackenbroch delivered the welcome speech at the opening ceremony.

The festival was a celebration of science communication in Southeast Asia, South Asia, Africa, the Middle East and Latin America. In cooperation with local partners, it promotes science literacy and facilitates awareness of contemporary scientific, technological and environmental issues through film and television content with accompanying educational activities.
409
Four artists - one each for Germany, France, England and India - will spend seven weeks in Kolkata and a week in Santiniketan to explore local art forms, interact with artists and civil society and put together a collaborative creation that will be showcased in city for a week. This is the third edition of the Indi-European residency project. The artists - author and publisher Tom Vater from Germany, drawing artist and illustrator Sophie Cousinie from France, theatre maker Imogen Butler-Cole from the United Kingdom and visual artist Aditi Aggarwal from India - were selected after a call for applications for the project organised by Goethe-institut, Alliance Francaise du Bengale and British Council in collaboration with Centre for International Modern Art (CIMA) and Kala Bhavana, Visva Bharati University, Santiniketan. At the end of the residency, a 'work in progress' or a 'collaborative creation' will be presented in the city for a week. The artists will also pursue their own project and get involved with local arts and culture scene, to enable a mutual exchange of creative ideas.Goethe-institut director Friso Maecker termed the project a unique artist residency that brought together a multitude of artistic practices, four nationalities and a variety of backgrounds. "It is this kind of personal, artistic exchange that opens doors and builds a solid road which can be travelled upon, in both directions," said Maecker.Alliance Francaise du Bengale director Fabrice Plancon, said the project allows Kolkata, the cultural capital of India, to create bridges amd nourish in the 21st century the creative dialogue between Bengal, India and Europe on art, culture and social matters," he said."This cross national, cross institutional collaboration is a tribute to the vibrancy of the arts and creative economy sector of Kolkata," remarked British Council director (east and northeast India) Debanjan Chakrabarti.
410
Ake festival, Africa's leading book festival will take place from 24<sup>th</sup> -- 27<sup>th</sup> October 2019 in Lagos, Nigeria. A world-class literary event taking place annually in Nigeria, Ake Festival is the most important book event on the African continent.

Now in its seventh year, Ake Festival brings together the biggest and brightest names in the world of books from across Africa and the African diaspora. Showcasing the best contemporary fiction, non-fiction, poetry and thinking from Africa, the festival also plays host to film screenings, theatre performances, poetry readings, art exhibitions and dance performances from Africa's biggest names. Inspiring people to engage with the power of books to inform, enlighten and inspire, Ake festival provides a platform for debates that challenge African norms, attitudes and traditions.

This year's festival includes some of Africa's most exciting contemporary authors, including Zimbabwe's most important writer Tsitsi Dangarembga, Man Booker Prize 2019 shortlisted author Bernardine Evaristo who also founded the African Poetry Prize, the Sunday Times bestselling author of My Sister the Serial Killer Oyinkan Braithwaite, award-winning Angolan author Jose Agualusa, and Reni Eddo-Lodge the internationally acclaimed author of Why I'm No Longer Talking To White People About Race.

Other headline authors include Nnedi Okorafor Africa's leading science fiction and fantasy author whose World Fantasy Award winning novel Who Fears Death is currently being adapted for an HBO TV series. Ayobami Adebayo is the critically acclaimed author of Stay with Me, a New York Times Notable Book of the Year and Guardian Best Book of the Year.Ãá Feminist activist Mona Eltahawy is the Egyptian-American author of the brilliantThe Seven Necessary Sins for Women and Girls.

The lineup also includes two authors who used their writing to tackle the 2014 mass-kidnapping of schoolgirls by terrorist group Boko Haram,Adaobi Tricia Nwaubani author of the award winning YA novel Buried Beneath the Baobab Tree, based on dozens of interviews with women and girls kidnapped by terrorist group and Helon Habila whose short and powerful The Chibok Girls was a Penguin special investigation publication. He will be discussing Travellers, his fantastic new novel.

The world's largest celebration of African authors and books, Ake Festival, whose headline sponsor is Sterling Bank, is a bastion of support for African creativity. On a continent where culture and the arts often receive little or no support from the state, Ake Festival is the best place to discover international contemporary fiction and writing from Africa and the African diaspora. With support from Sterling Bank who have contributed to the increasing visibility of African authors, Ake Festival aims to reinforce the literary arts as an important component of the creative industries across Africa, reflecting Lagos' position as an emergent cultural capital on the continent.

Headline Author: Tsitsi Dangarembga

Every year, Ake Festival is headlined by an African writer who has shaped African literary culture and challenged readers within and outside the continent through their works.

Poet, activist, novelist and filmmaker Tsitsi Dangarembga was born in Mutoko, Zimbabwe. With her first novel Nervous Conditions (1988) she became the first Zimbabwean woman to write a novel in English.Ãá Hailed by Doris Lessing as one of the most important novels of the twentieth century Nervous Conditions was included in the BBC's 2018 list of the 100 books that changed the world. The Book of Not (2006) and This Mournable Body (2018) complete Dangarembga's Tambudzai Trilogy. Dangarembga founded the Institute of Creative Arts for Progress in Africa (ICAPA) in 2009, and its publishing division in 2014.Ãá She runs capacity building programmes for African women filmmakers, in addition to fundraising for her productions. Her films and prose have received many awards.

Festival Theme: Black Bodies | Grey Matter

The theme for the 2019 edition of Ake Arts and Book Festival is Black Bodies Grey Matter. Events will explore how our minds and bodies have impacted - and been impacted by - the course of history. Colonialism, multiculturalism, internecine violence, organised religion, cultural attitudes and practices have all left their mark. While specific practices such as scarification and tattoos leave physical traces, colourism, stereotyping and gender non-conformity exert their influence on both psyche and soma. The interrogation of these issues will yield fascinating and illuminating insights. This theme, in the hands of Africa's leading creatives and thinkers, will give rise to discussions and conversations that will enrich our understanding of the African condition.

Festival Programme

From 24 to 27 October, visitors to Ake Festival will be able to participate in 20 stimulating panel discussions which will tackle issues relating to the black body. Issues such as body modification and social acceptance, eliminating sexual violence, religious extremism in Nigeria and the mental health explosion will be explored.

There will be 14 book chats with exciting authors including Jamaican-American Nicole Dennis-Benn; Francophone literary star Abdourahman Waberi and award-winning Ugandan writer Jennifer Makumbi. In addition to the literary events there will be a one-woman performance by the electrifying dub-poet D'bi Anitafrika.

There will be 20 exciting panel discussions this year, all related to the festival's theme of Black Bodies / Grey Matter. Panel discussions will range from Demystifying Skin with Reni Eddo-Lodge, Gavin Evans and Mpho Tjope, to Roots and Representation: Black Women in Film with Adepero Oduye, Dakore Akande and Nadine Ibrahim as well as Scars, Body Modification and Self/Social Acceptance Ãáwith Wana Udobang talking to Adetutu Alabi, Adenike Oyetunde and Chidera Muoka.

On Sunday night, outstanding Nigerian and International poets will thrill us with performances from Gbenga Adesina, Onias Landveld (The Netherlands), Logan February, Dami Ajayi, Wana Udobang, Jumoke Verissimo, Tanya Evanson, Bernadine Evaristo, and D'bi Anitafrica.

Ake Festival's Eat the Book event is a celebration of African cooking inspired by African writing. Hosted by CNN-featured food enthusiast, Ozoz Sokoh, also known as Kitchen Butterfly, Eat the Book is a culinary exploration of Africa's cuisine, as described in African novels. Festival goers can literally eat the book while Ozoz tells us about the combinations of different flavours and techniques used in cooking the meals.

Ake Festival will also see the launch of Water Birds on the Lakeshore, a wonderful pan-African anthology of YA fiction from Africa, which has been published in partnership with Zukiswa Wanner and Goethe-institut.

Ake Festival devotes the Thursday of the festival to Project Inspire! where festival authors visit both state primary and secondary schools in Lagos. Whilst they are there, festival authors will read to the pupils, discuss the benefits of reading, and take questions from the pupils about their career accomplishments and books.

Ake Festival also hosts the announcement of the 2019 (http://www.africansfs.com/nommos) Nommo Awards , an award given to the best SF books written in Africa, as well as The Toyin Falola Prize.

Film, Music and Visual Arts Programme

Outside of the world of books, Ake Festival has an incredible programme of film, music and visual arts.

This year, the Ake Festival Art exhibition will showcase photographs that celebrate various representations of the black body and mind. Curated by Roli Afinotan and Jessica Byenyan Bitrus. The exhibition will feature the artists Justin Dingwall, Halima Abubakar, Niyi Okeowo, Yvonne Etinosa.Ãá

Ake Festival will host a programme of critically acclaimed independent films including Malika the Warrior Queen, To Be Free, Picture Lock, Marked and Toni Morrison: The Pieces I am.

Finally the Saturday night of the festival is taken over by a music concert featuring some of Africa's most celebrated artists including Ibejii, Clay, Dwin the Stoic, The Griot Barasuno and Fokn Bois.

There will also be a one-woman show from the incredible D'bi Young Anitafrika. This Jamaican-Canadian gives an electrifying, haunting Dub Poetry performance. Her lyrical, no-holds-barred and in-your-face style takes audiences through the history of the black body, and its survival in a world that typically dismembers women. With her 'onewomban biomyth monodramas', D'bi is a dub poet, educator, soul-searching 'wombanist.'

Lola Shoneyin, Director & Founder, Ake Arts and Book Festival,

"We have an outstanding line-up for Ake Festival 2019. Every year, the plan is to outdo ourselves so our visitors have an enriching and memorable experience in Lagos. "
411
Four artistsone each for Germany, France, England and Indiawill spend seven weeks in Kolkata and a week in Santiniketan to explore local art forms, interact with artists and civil society and put together a collaborative creation that will be showcased in city for a week. This is the third edition of the Indi-European residency project.The artistsauthor and publisher Tom Vater from Germany, drawing artist and illustrator Sophie Cousinié from France, theatre maker Imogen Butler-Cole from the United Kingdom and visual artist Aditi Aggarwal from Indiawere selected after a call for applications for the project organised by Goethe-institut, Alliance Française du Bengale and British Council in collaboration with Centre for International Modern Art (CIMA) and Kala Bhavana, Visva Bharati University, Santiniketan.At the end of the residency, a 'work in progress' or a 'collaborative creation' will be presented in the city for a week. The artists will also pursue their own project and get involved with local arts and culture scene, to enable a mutual exchange of creative ideas.Goethe-institut director Friso Maecker termed the project a unique artist residency that brought together a multitude of artistic practices, four nationalities and a variety of backgrounds. "It is this kind of personal, artistic exchange that opens doors and builds a solid road which can be travelled upon, in both directions,ö said Maecker.Alliance Française du Bengale director Fabrice Plançon, said the project allows Kolkata, the cultural capital of India, to create bridges amd nourish in the 21st century the creative dialogue between Bengal, India and Europe on art, culture and social matters,ö he said.ôThis cross national, cross institutional collaboration is a tribute to the vibrancy of the arts and creative economy sector of Kolkata," remarked British Council director (east and northeast India) Debanjan Chakrabarti.
412
 The launch of the third edition of the Interdisciplinary Indo-European Residency Project Kolkata was held on Wednesday 23 October at the British Council.

The aim of the residency, organised by Goethe-institut / Max Mueller Bhavan Kolkata, the Alliance Francaise du Bengale with Institut Francais, India, and the British Council in collaboration with Centre for International Modern Art (CIMA) and Kala Bhavana, Visva Bharati University, Santiniketan, is to enable the artist residents to create an individual or collective art project during their stay in India.

The four artists were, selected after a call for applications, are author and publisher Tom Vater from Germany, drawing artist and illustrator Sophie Cousinie from France, theatre maker Imogen Butler-Cole from the United Kingdom and visual artist Aditi Aggarwal from India.

At the end of the residency, a 'work in progress' or a 'collaborative creation' will be presented in the city for a week. In addition to pursuing their own project, the residents are also expected to get involved with the local arts and culture scene, to enable a healthy mutual exchange of creative ideas between the city's artist community and the artists in residence.

Dr. Michael Feiner, Consul General, Germany, Virginie Corteval, Consul General of France in Kolkata and Nick Low, British Deputy High Commissioner, spoke at the launch where the artists presented insights into their artistic work and their planned projects. Pratiti Basu Sarkar, Chief Administrator, CIMA Gallery, moderated the discussion.

Friso Maecker, Director, Goethe-institut / Max Mueller Bhavan Kolkata said: "The Indo-European Residency Project Kolkata is a unique artist residency. It brings together a multitude of artistic practices, four nationalities and a variety of backgrounds. We are proud that this year the residency project has grown and that an artist from Great Britain will join this group in order to explore Kolkata, exchange and interact together with their fellow residents with the artists and civil society from Kolkata and Santiniketan so that each one can take home a more personal, understanding and in depth picture of West-Bengal and at the same time leave a more in-depth impression of his/her own country. It is this kind of personal, artistic exchange that opens doors and builds a solid road which can be travelled upon, in both directions."

Fabrice Plancon, Director, Alliance Francaise du Bengale said: "I arrived in my posting just in time to follow the first edition of the residency, in 2017. I am so happy we have been able to make it bigger this year with the British Council in the project. Every year, I see how the project is becoming more mature, with the experience of every new artist we welcome to the City of Joy. This project allows Kolkata, the cultural capital of India, to create bridges, to nourish in the 21st century the creative dialogue between Bengal, India and Europe on art, culture and social matters, as rich as it used to be during Tagore's time."

Dr. Debanjan Chakrabarti, Director East and Northeast India, British Council said: "I would like to thank our partners for including UK in this year's Indo-European residency. Through our work in arts the British Council hopes to provide sustainable opportunities that enable emerging UK artists, organisations and cultural sectors to connect, share and create. This seems the perfect opportunity for us. I warmly welcome all the artists and am looking forward to the outcomes of the residency for the city of Kolkata."

The Artists:

Germany: Tom Vater is a best-selling writer and publisher working predominantly in Asia. He has published four crime novels, numerous non-fiction books on Asian subjects and he is the co-owner of Crime Wave Press, a Hong Kong based English language crime fiction imprint. Tom is the co-author of several documentary screenplays produced for European television. He loves the city of Kolkata and wants to create a series of short crime fiction stories or novellas set in the city. The stories would partly serve as an homage to Feluda, the city's best-known fictional detective, created by Kolkata's legendary film director Satyajit Ray.

India: Aditi Aggarwal is an Indian visual artist based in Noida. She has won several awards and exhibited her works widely. She has worked as an associate researcher for Sangeet Natak Academy (India's National Academy of Music, Dance and Drama) and for The Museum of Sacred Art, Belgium (Delhi Chapter). In her works, Aditi explores and expresses the idea of repetition, beauty, automatism and spontaneity through bookmaking and painting format. She is currently pursuing PhD from Faculty of Music and Fine Arts, University of Delhi and works as an Assistant Professor at the College of Art, New Delhi.

France: Sophie Cousinie is a French drawing artist and illustrator. She studied theatre, literature and anthropology and offers an unusual style of figurative drawing. The drawing and painting came at the same time as primary school and improved through life experiences. Her drawings, hand-made with ink and watercolors represent ordinary life situations, humans and animal-portraits and have found a place in publishing, illustrations and covers. She tries to catch singular situations and specificities of people, kids and animals, urban and rural life, and the link between them.

UK: Imogen is a theatre maker, trainer and activist who has worked extensively in India, Brasil, Bangladesh, New Zealand, France and the UK. Her first solo play, Foreign Body, about healing after sexual assault, sold out runs at Southbank's WOW Festival, Soho Theatre and VAULT Festival and has toured India and the UK. She recently directed Coming Clean, a piece about disclosing sexual assault, with Roundhouse Young Creatives. She lived in India between 2003-6, directing Much Ado About Nothing at the David Sassoon Library in Mumbai and working alongside DIKSHA to create several plays with members about their lives. Imogen works as an activist with On Road Media's Angles project and Consent Collective to create a more sophisticated understanding of sexual abuse and providing talks, training and performance for journalists, universities and businesses. She trains business professionals in communication skills for RADA Business and The Old Vic, specialising in confidence and presence for women. Imogen is currently developing a new solo, White Noise, about whiteness and racism, at Shoreditch Town Hall for premiere in 2020.
413
My Protest is a first person narrative documentary which attempts to document the major political events of Bangladesh after the Liberation War in a chronological order

As a part of their regular film screening session, Through Her Eyes initiative, jointly arranged by the Goethe-institut and the International Film Initiative of Bangladesh (IFIB), screened two documentary films at the institut's auditorium in Dhanmondi.

The films, Depannita - A Lady with Versatile Talents and My Protest, both directed by Reshmi Ahmed, were shown on Sunday, followed by a Q and A discussion session. The Q and A session was moderated by National Award winning documentary film-maker Shabnam Ferdousi.

Depannita- A lady with versatile talents is about Depannita Monjulika Chakma who took the bold, and unusual step of developing traditional looms as an industry in the '60. She became a role model for local tribal woman.

My Protest is a first person narrative documentary which attempts to document the major political events of Bangladesh after the Liberation War in a chronological order.

It also highlights the Shahbag Movement, and Ganajagoron Mancha.

When Sabnam Ferdousi asked the director if she was a little biased in the portrayal of political events in Bangladesh after the independence war, Reshmi Ahmed replied: "I don't think so, I tried to document what I saw."

Many in the audience raised questions on the issue of bias in the documentary. An audience member asked the director a similar question, as to how truthful she was towards the historical events of Bangladesh before 1975, she avoided the question.

Through Her Eyes gives film enthusiasts, film students, academics, film professionals, funding agencies, broadcasters, rights groups, and journalists a regular opportunity to watch films by women film-makers currently working in Bangladesh, and to interact with them directly at the end of the screening.
414
Tenders are invited for evaluation of sotware oska des Goethe-institut e.V.

Kreisverwaltung germersheim 19.11.19published: 21.10.19

Award procedure: services

Offer period: 19.11.2019

Major organization : Goethe-institut EV - ZENTRALE

Address : 80333 Mnchen Bayern
415
Continuing the legacy of success two students, Priyanshu Kashyap and Sanjivani Kumari of DPS Bokaro qualified the scholarship examination to make their way to Sri Lanka.

Priyanshu Kashyap and Sanjivani Kumari of grade IX brought in laurels to their alma mater by being selected to participate in the prestigious International Youth Camp to be held at Colombo, Sri Lanka from 11 to 13 November this year.

This camp is a part of the scholarship offered to those students who have excelled in German language studies at the state level; and all expenses pertaining to the trip i.e. flight tickets, food and lodging, travel insurance are borne by Goethe-institut. These students qualified a challenging online selection test to make their way to the Global platform.

Every year Goethe-institute organizes these camps for students from more than 1800 schools all over the global countries which are a part of the PASCH network worldwide wherein students take part in many fun activities like tours to places of importance, quiz including others.

Principal, DPS Bokaro A. S. Gangwar said that this success is the result of the committed efforts put in by the students under the guidance of their teacher. "This indeed is a special moment for the school fraternity. Such programmes help students not only get the opportunity to brush up their language skills but also provide exposure at the global level," he added.
416
As many as 25 movies from Southeast Asia, South Asia, Africa, the Middle East and Latin America will be screened at the Science Film Festival in Chennai starting October 17. The films will cover genres such as family edutainment, ecology and environment, natural science, life science and technology, culture and history, and non-verbal and science shorts. With the theme 'Humboldt and The Web of Life', the festival will celebrate the 250th anniversary of Prussian polymath and geographer, Alexander Von Humboldt, and his interdisciplinary approach to science and nature, to mark the current global discussion on the environment, climate change and sustainability.It is being organised by Goethe-institut, Chennai, NGO Environmentalist Foundation of India (EFI), the Greater Chennai Corporation, Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan, PASCH-Schools, Ramakrishna Mission, Rotary Club of Madras East and Interact District. The festival will be anchored by Yoshida Menon who has collaborated with schools across the world on education on sustainability, and Preveena Nandakumar, architect, glass designer, and an advocate for sustainable living. The festival will be inaugurated by Consular Attache, Consulate General of the Federal Republic of Germany, Chennai, at Goethe-institut, at 4.30pm on Thursday. It will be followed by a presentation, 'Climate Change and what can we do about it', by D Suresh aka 'Solar' Suresh.
417
Promote scientific cooperation across continents and establish new collaborations with African universities and companies, which supports the funding measure "Long-term exchange in science and society in Africa". Six innovative university projects and formats in Freiburg, Karlsruhe, Offenburg, Reutlingen, Tbingen and Weingarten are supported by the Ministry of Science, Research and the Arts with start-up funding totaling 250,000 euros.

"Africa has gained in importance as a home for excellent scientists and as a region of origin for high-performance students in Baden-Wrttemberg." The continent is of growing interest for the internationalization of our universities, "said Minister of Science Theresia Bauer on Thursday (10 October) in Stuttgart.

A connection between Baden-Wuerttemberg and Africa already exists through the Namibia Initiative, whose aim is to return colonial cultural assets to Namibia. With the support program, the country is helping to deepen its partnership with Africa towards the future. It is therefore particularly pleasing that the program can also support two promising projects with partners in Namibia.

The projects of the universities and the Baden State Museum focus on new formats that can initiate change processes, for example through cooperation or through the reduction of knowledge asymmetries. The following six projects are funded:

Reutlingen University: Namibian German Incubator

Reutlingen University will establish a new cooperation with the University of Namibia (UNAM) in the areas of capacity building for universities, for enterprise development and for the area of ??service learning. The first "Namibian German Incubator" will use the infrastructure of the two universities to promote the necessary competence development, coaching and training for the above mentioned areas.

PH Weingarten: Joint Strengthening of Educational

Sciences The project of PH Weingarten and the University of Namibia focuses on the exchange of teaching and learning concepts and the joint development of existing forms of teaching as well as the mutual support in the adaptation and implementation. Essential here are, among other things, practical elements in teaching studies as well as ethnic and linguistic heterogeneity. The cooperation of the universities should strengthen the educational sciences in Namibia and Baden-Wrttemberg in the medium term.

University of Tbingen: Urban Subjectives in Sub-Saharan Africa

Embedded in the Global South Studies of the University of Tbingen, the research project is to work on the dynamics of urbanization in African societies in recent decades, which represent one of the central socio-cultural problems of the African present. The focus is on social imaginary and cultural practices that represent urban change processes and their repercussion on the population. These should be critically questioned by German and African scientists.

University of Freiburg: Africa Center at the University of Freiburg

With the BMBF-funded project "Merian Institute for Advanced Studies in Africa" ??(MIASA), the University of Freiburg has entered into a long-term cooperation with the University of Ghana in Accra in cooperation with the Arnold Bergstrsser Institute , Parallel to the establishment of MIASA in Accra, a European Africa Center in Freiburg is to be established, which serves as a competence, service and information center for European African Studies in teaching, research and innovation. Reciprocity is the leitmotiv of the Center to establish a new form of cooperation between German, European and African researchers.

Badisches Landesmuseum: Egyptian-German Network of Applied Museum Studies

The Egyptian Museums in Cairo and the Badische Landesmuseum plan to establish an Egyptian-German Network of Applied Museum Studies. This involves a constant transfer of knowledge, both in the field of cultural mediation and visitor research, as well as the establishment of an exchange program between scientific staff and researchers from Egypt to Germany. The kick-off of this network is a summer school in Karlsruhe. The event offers the opportunity for broad networking and intercultural competence building on both sides, which should be continued and strengthened in further projects.

Offenburg University of Applied Sciences: EtAPE: tudier en Allemagne - Prparation aux tudes

The project aims at a tailor-made study preparation of Cameroonian high school graduates for a technical study at the University of Applied Sciences Offenburg. In cooperation with the Goethe-institut in Cameroon, a program is to be implemented which, in addition to the preparation for the German Language Examination for University Entrance, also includes the professional preparation and offers modules of study orientation. This innovative approach should lay the foundation for a successful study.
418
Burkhard Ducoffre, deputy head of Mission of the Embassy of the Federal Republic of Germany, and Dr Samiya Selim, director, Centre for Sustainable Development (CSD), University of Liberal Arts Bangladesh, were among the honourable guests who attended the opening event

The first ever Science Film Festival Bangladesh was opened on Saturday afternoon at the Nawab Ali Auditorium, Maple Leaf International School, Dhanmondi. Goethe-institut Bangladesh, in cooperation with Jaago Foundation, Children's Television Foundation of Bangladesh, University of Liberal Arts Bangladesh, Pasch-schools: Partners for the Future, South Point School and College, Oxford International School, Maple Leaf International School, and Mastermind International School, jointly organized the festival, to be held from 12 October to 15 November at different venues in Dhaka and Chittagong.

Burkhard Ducoffre, deputy head of Mission of the Embassy of the Federal Republic of Germany, and Dr Samiya Selim, director, Centre for Sustainable Development (CSD), University of Liberal Arts Bangladesh, were among the honourable guests who attended the opening event.

Kirsten Hackenbroch, director of Goethe-institut Bangladesh, welcomed the distinguished guests and students from different schools.

'Science Film Festival is an offer to engage with a sustainable future for our earth,' she said in her welcome speech. '...Take it as a chance to explore diversity - via the films from around the globe and in real life by getting to know other schools' students during screenings.'

Expressing his delight, Burkhard Ducoffre, deputy head of Mission of the Embassy of the Federal Republic of Germany, said: 'Leaving the stage of a least-developed-country is a huge achievement for Bangladesh, and scientific research will be a key factor in this endeavour.'

The Science Film Festival presents scientific issues in an accessible and entertaining manner to a broad audience, and demonstrates that science can be approached in various ways, he added.

Dr Samiya Selim, director, Centre for Sustainable Development (CSD), University of Liberal Arts Bangladesh, said: "The importance of science communication is now more urgent than ever. This is why the Humboldt and Web of Life Science Festival is such a great initiative, which is addressing the importance of reaching the younger audience, and sharing the science behind climate change, plastic pollution, sustainability and other such critical issues."

The Science Film Festival is a celebration of science communication in Southeast Asia, South Asia, Africa, the Middle East and Latin America. The first edition of the Science Film Festival Bangladesh will take place from October 12 to 15 November.
419
The Goethe-institut Lagos is set to present the long-awaited Afro-Young Adult Anthology, titled, "Water Birds on the Lake Shore: An Anthology of African Young Adult Fiction." Afro-Young Adult was launched in October 2018, aiming at producing more African literature for Young adults with a call for applications that attracted 435 submissions rom 28 countries. Through workshops, the final stories were then selected by panels consisting of writers, literary activists and young adult readers.

Of the entries, 17 stories were selected, written in English, French and Swahili to be published in three distinct editions. The anthology will be officially launched at the Ake Art and Book Festival which will take place from October 24 to 27 at the Mike Adenuga Centre, Ikoyi.

Zukiswa Wanner, the Project Co-ordinator said that the anthology is the first of its kind in recent memory on a continent where the majority of the population and young adults and yet, often ignored.

Zukiswa said: "Despite the unforeseen costs that came up in the process, they did not give up on it and in this way, exemplified how developmental partners can work together with the African continent in literature."

The stories in the anthology range from the fantastical to observations of youth in war situations and the mysteries of death, to kinship and sexuality and they are written in young adults' voices that are sometimes assertive or oblivious to the world around them.

Asma Diakite, Regional Head of Cultural Programmes at the Goethe-institut , in her assessment of the writings, expressed her sentiments on the work.

"We are hopeful that the anthology will be widely distributed in bookshops, libraries and classrooms all over the world but particularly on the African continent so that young adults in African can see that they are not alone with their hopes, fears and dreams."
420
The Ellen Golz, Chargee d'Affaires of the German Embassy in Windhoek and the Head of Goethe-institut Namibia Daniel Stoevesandt last week (Thursday) handed over donations of musical instruments to the New African Methodist Episcopal Church Brass Band.

In a joint media statement issued on Friday, the donated equipment include ten music stands, three cornets, three trumpets, three trombones valued at about N.dollars 119 124.

The music equipment were handed over on the occasion of the celebrations on the day of Germany Unity at the residence of the Germany Ambassador Designate, read the statement.

According to the statement, the cultural programme work is to promote art and exhibition, film, theatre, dance, literature, and music which is a key component of the foreign cultural and education policy of the Federal Republic of Germany since it strengthens intercultural encounters and communication.

The statement further revealed the donated instruments will enable the band to reach out to even more young people and increase the scope of their work.

The New African Methodist Episcopal Brass Band is about the youth and is led by Kaptein Hendrik Ismael Witbooi and has so far performed several times at notable occasions including Independence day celebrations, read the statement.

During the occasion the Brass Band played the German and Namibian national anthems as well as some songs to entertain about 400 guests.

Church Brass Band which is made up of young musicians from Windhoek and the surrounding areas was represented by its conductor, Kaptein Hendrik Witbooi.
421
Africans born and raised in Europe often go through great difficulties to acquire citizenship. Several of the features shown at the African Film Festival in Cologne, Germany highlighted this issue.

"I am sorting out my paperwork. That is why my residence card has expired," a baffled Brahim tells a police officer, who just arrested him. But the officer answers: "You are illegal, don't move, stay right there."

The fate of many Africans born and raised in Europe is told through the experience of Brahim in the short feature Timoura (Territories). The film directed by Azedine Kasri was shown at the 17th Africa Film Festival in Cologne, one of 75 features, documentaries, animations and short films shown in the German city.

Timoura tells the story of car mechanic Brahim, who was born to Algerian parents in France and raised there. Brahim has lost touch with his Algerian heritage. But when the police tell him he is living in France illegally it sets him on a path to rediscover his Algerian identity. Migration, citizenship, identity and fundamentalism were prominent themes at this year's festival. The themes were explored by a number of films using the story of Africans born and raised in Europe like Brahim who, despite living all their lives in Europe, are still not European enough in the eyes of their fellow citizens.

Anti-immigrant movements in Europe

In June, 73 far-right lawmakers from the European Parliament formed a bloc with the aim of curbing immigration and stop the spread of Islam. In France this agenda is being spearheaded by the far-right National Rally party. The frustration of the people targetted by the party is expressed by Brahim in Timoura when he tells the police officer: "I was born and raised here, how can I be illegal?"

Under French law children born in France of foreign parents must request French nationality when they reach adulthood and are not automatically granted citizenship.

It comes as no surprise that increasingly Africans are returning home. The International Organisation for Migration (IOM) said it helped a record 92,000 people return to Africa voluntarily in 2016.

Director Coralie Majouga explores the issue of reverse migration is her film Au Revoir Paris. When their father moves back to Africa, Mathis and Antoine know it is only a matter of time before they have to go too. The two young boys who are used to life in France, however dread the prospect.

"I hear in Africa the spiders are as big as your head. Kids have to sell peanuts to survive. Sometimes a blackout means people go to bed at 4 pm, otherwise they trip over each other in the dark," one of them tells his friends.

Au Revoir Paris addresses the subjects of migration and African stereotypes through the eyes of two young children who have internalized negative images of Africa. In the end, though, the two children realize that Africa is probably not all bad. "We will be okay," Antoine reassures his brother, holding him close.

Jacqueline Nsiah, program director for the Africa Film Society in Ghana, oversees an African film platform at the Goethe-institut as project manager. International film festivals mean that "African films don't necessarily have to be seen only by Africans but can reach wider European and American audiences," she says.

The variety of films at the 17th edition of the festival reflects the growing diversity of film on Africa. "The only thing they have in common is that they are made by people who identify as African," says Nsiah.

African diaspora dominant at the film festival

A great number of films set in Africa are produced by Africans living abroad. Bonn-based DW journalist Mantegaftot Sileshi Siyoum, a contributor to this years film festival, says there are reasons. Filmmakers in his native Ethiopia get zero government support. "If I want to buy a RED camera, Ethiopian customs will consider this a luxury item and impose huge taxes," he says.

Siyoum says he is luckier than his counterparts in Ethiopia. "A lot of my friends who want to produce short movies have scripted it but cannot produce because they have no money." To make it worse, producers based in Ethiopia are only interested in films that have immediate commercial value, not short films or features.

Read more: Making movies in Africa: Breaking conventions

Siyoum's film, King of the Street, shot in his private time, is about a boy who lives on the street and wants to be treated like a king. The child is however, ignored by society, The filmmaker sees a parallel with how filmmakers are treated in Ethiopia.

Independent filmmakers like Siyoum are left to grapple with marketing and distribution all by themselves. "When I participate in festivals, a lot of other festivals get in touch and ask if I want to show my film, so it helps with marketing," he says.
422
Night Under the Stars, set to take place this Friday, will be taking a detour from the local music scene to welcome German artist Musa.

New to the international music scene of rap and hip-hop, Musa Gahein-Sama is inspired by travel, contemporary politics, history and the formulation of an Afro-European identity.

Born and raised in Berlin by his Sierra Leonese parents, Musa brings his cultural heritage to the forefront through lyrics that express concern on current affairs such as migration, asylum seekers and ethnic minorities. His debut solo album released earlier this year, 'Berliner Negritude', expresses solidarity with refugees and seeks to awaken hope, while pointing out the grievances ethnic minorities encounter every day.

The co-founder of Afrotrap project has been on tour since September. His performance in Windhoek will be supported by DJ Sarah Shakir. This trip to Namibia follows stops in Ouagadougou in Burkina Faso and Harare, Zimbabwe, before heading to Luanda, Angola.

The concert starts at 19h00 and takes place at the Goethe-institut Namibia, located at 1-5 Fidel Castro Street.

For more information, visit goethe.de/namibia.

- Goethe-institut Namibia
423
Today, the best bet for a young candidate wanting to learn from the legacy of the armed forces during the Indian Independence Movement or World War II, may lie in prized, yellowing military records that regiments often work hard to preserve for documentation and posterity.But what if you wished to know a soldier outside of combat; the person he was, the freedom he felt holding his newborn for the first time, or the friends he found in the most unusual of allies? Annu Palakunnathu Matthew, professor of art at the University of Rhode Island, decided the best people to turn to for these answers would be the families themselves.The photo-based artist, who is in India on a Fullbright research fellowship, will be visiting Chennai on September 29 to talk with New York-based fine art photographer Martine Fougeron at a panel discussion on family portraiture at Alliance Francaise. As part of her upcoming art project, Annu has put out an open call to families of Indian WWII veterans, requesting them to pull out from the loft old family albums, and send across rare snapshots from the life and times of their kin in the forces. Through this, she aspires to highlight their unaddressed history and ensure they are remembered. The project will culminate in an art installation at Srishti in December, followed by one at Rhode Island in October next year.ôTwo-and-a-half million Indian soldiers fought for the British in the Second World War and are largely forgotten in history. Since the war was closely followed by Partition, it had probably become complicated to talk about their role. My own grandmother's brother was a captain in Europe, and I've been trying to find more information on him,ö she says.Seventy-three year-old former travel entrepreneur from Dehradun Avjit Kalha, has carefully collated every piece of memorabilia and photograph from her father late Lieutenant General D H Kalha's journey through the Second World War. ôIt begins with him leaving home his wife of three months, on to the Siege of Tobruk in 1941, where he was taken prisoner of war to Italy, and his eventual escape,ö she says. ôI've grown up listening to his stories about the Italian farmers in Avezzano who sheltered him while he was in hiding. We went on to meet these families much later.öAmong her contribution to Annu's project is a rare photograph of her father with British army commander during WWII, Field Marshal Claude Auchinleck.ôIn India, where military history hasn't made it into school curriculum yet, projects like these bring awareness to the civilian population and keep memories of our soldiers alive,ö says former Captain D P Ramachandran, also one of the contributors from Chennai. ôThese are fascinating snippets from the lives of our soldiers that we can learn from and relate to. They are shadow histories that add new light to what we think we already know about these events and people,ö says Annu.The panel discussion is part of a residency supported by The Franco German Cultural Fund and The Grid, and organised by Alliance Francaise of Madras, Goethe-institut Chennai and Chennai Photo Biennale.
424
 The Goethe-institut Bangladesh has organized a concert with the German Band Erfindenker on Saturday afternoon, at its auditorium in Dhanmondi. As part of inspiring the German language learning students of Goethe's four partner schools under the PASCH programme, the concert was inaugurated by Dr Kirsten Hackenbroch, director of the Goethe-institut Bangladesh.

The partner schools under the PASCH programme are; Oxford International School, European Standard School, South Point School and College and Maple leaf International School.

The band Erfindenker performed their famous scores including '30 Grad', 'Seid ihr bereit', 'Achterbahn', 'Farben', 'Keine Zeit', 'Lass mal lassen', 'Kalte Schulter', 'Nimm mich mit', 'So gut', 'Unfassbar', 'Immer das Gleiche', 'Hans Cook', 'Wird schon werden', 'Strichcode', 'Spring', 'Voll den Vogel', 'Zu guter letzt' and 'Erfindenker-Medley'- among their other songs in the concert.

With the current line-up including Fabio Niehaus (DJ/ Keys), Luka Sommerfeld (Guitar), Melissa Demissie (Vocal) and Caroline Leuzinger (Vocal), Erfindenker's educational- creative- interactive performances mesmerized the enthusiastic and energetic audiences.

The band's Dhaka tour was a part of more than a month long tour of cities in the subcontinent, including Kathmandu, Karachi, Lahore and various cities in India and Dhaka spanning from 16th August to 21st September 2019.

As part of the Dhaka tour, Erfindenker band members conducted a daylong workshop with 48 enthusiastic students from four partner schools on Friday. The students were shown how they may improve their German language skills through music. The participating students also rehearsed with the band members through the workshop to perform three songs so stage, alongside the band members during the concert.
425
To inspire the German language learning students of its four partner schools under the PASCH programme, Goethe-institut Bangladesh organised a concert with the German Band Erfindenker recently at its auditorium in the capital's Dhanmondi area.

The partner schools under the PASCH programme are; Oxford International School, European Standard School, South Point School and College and Maple leaf International School. Dr Kirsten Hackenbroch, director of the Goethe-institut Bangladesh inaugurated the event.

With their mind-blowing performance, it did not take long for Erfindenker to get their predominantly young audience on their feet and move with the rhythm and melodies. 30 Grad, Seid ihr bereit? Achterbahn, Farben, So'n Tag, Keine Zeit, Lass mal lassen, Kalte Schulter, Nimm mich mit, Erfindenker-Medley, So gut, Unfassbar, Immer das Gleiche, Hans Cook, Wird schon werden, Strichcode, Spuck's aus, Spring, Voll den Vogel and Zu guter letzt were among the 20 German songs presented during the concert. Erfindenker line-up were: Fabio Niehaus (DJ/ Keys), Luka Sommerfeld (Guitar), Melissa Demissie (Vocal) and Caroline Leuzinger (Vocal).

Erfindenker's Dhaka tour made possible thanks to the Goethe-institut's regional initiatives by inviting the group for more than a month long tour of cities in the subcontinent, including Kathmandu, Karachi, Lahore and various cities in India and Dhaka spanning from August 16 to September 21.

As part of the Dhaka tour, Erfindenker band members conducted a daylong workshop with 48 enthusiastic students from four partner schools on Friday. The students were shown how they may improve their German language skills through music. The participating students also rehearse with the band members through the workshop to perform three songs so stage, alongside the band members during the concert.

The Erfindenker band was found in 2010 by two musicians Sandro Jahn and Fabio Niehaus and the slogans of the band was educational- creative- interactive from the beginning of their journey. This band group offers an extensive range of teacher seminars and student workshops since then.

They want to reach to the audience through their enthusiasm to music, language, and interculturality. They like to do their activities with core, so that they can develop something creative that they strongly believe.

The 'Schools: Partners for the Future' (PASCH) initiative was launched in February 2008 by Germany's Federal Foreign Office. The Goethe-institut supports around 600 PASCH schools in the national education systems of over 100 countries. The initiative is designed to arouse and sustain young people's interest in and enthusiasm for modern-day Germany, German society and the German language. A global network of partner schools of the Federal Republic of Germany is being created; the schools become part of an international community of learners through shared activities and exchange.

In Bangladesh, the PASCH network consists of five partner schools, namely Oxford International School, European Standard School, South Point School and College, Maple leaf International School and Chittagong Mastermind International School. In the school year 2018/2019, more than 1300 students learned German as a foreign language in different levels. Learning German has increasingly become more popular; in comparison, only 770 students studied German in the five PASCH schools in 2015.

The PASCH-initiative in Bangladesh was started by the Goethe-institut Bangladesh with a programme to train teachers in both the necessary language skills as well as teaching skills for interactive modern language teaching.

Today, 22 teachers are providing quality education in German language while Goethe-institut provides continuous support in teachers' training. Furthermore, students of German language in the five PASCH schools receive many opportunities to visit the Goethe-institut for example for film screenings and theater plays as well as to participate in youth camps in South Asia and Germany.
426
Hansel and Gretel' is no fairy tale, tell Cristina Galbiati and Ilija Luginbühl, who bring this play in a different format. The performance takes the shape of an installation that merges theatre and visual arts. The spectator walks through nine different physical-sensory rooms accompanied and guided by earphones. Cristina and Ilija say, ôAfter a few years, in which we created shows focused on the physicality of the performer, we wondered if it was possible to move the point of view from the actor to the spectator and create an experience in which the spectator was at the center of the creative event. In this sense, we asked ourselves what would have happened if, instead of being seated in the stalls, as in conventional theatre, the spectator were in motion and literally immersed in a visual space of sound and smell. Starting from these elements, we tried to combine them in a transposition of the classical fairy tale of 'Hansel and Gretel'.ö They first identified the essential elements of the fairy tale and divided the story into several moments. ôThe elements are those most linked to the archetypal aspects, the house, the forest, another house that looks like a refuge from the outside but hides many dangers, the encounter with the evil one.öSo, how do you think audiences will perceive it? ôThe reactions are generally positive. What I find fascinating is that the spectators literally enter another world and live an experience that makes them travel through time and space.ö'Hansel & Gretel' @ Goethe-institut/Max Mueller Bhavan, Rutland Gate, Sept 27, 6pm-9pm & Sept 28, 11am-2pm, Tickets: ?300
427
The 2019 National Readathon was officially launched here on Tuesday by the Directorate of Education Library Services in the Kavango East Region under the Ministry of Education, Arts and Culture.

The National Readathon which started on Monday will end on Friday.

Speaking at the official opening of the event the chief education officer Lukas Makayi said the national readathon week is more than just reading a textbook or notes given by your teacher.

'Here we are referring to falling in love with reading activities which means reading any book you come across being it fiction or non-fiction,' he said.

The research he said has revealed that people who read widely have vast knowledge and are better informed about what is happening in the world.

Makayi said the latest report by the Southern and Eastern African Consortium for Monitoring Education Quality (SACMEQ) indicates that the Namibian children's reading ability is lower compared to other countries in southern and eastern Africa.

This she added is particularly in the junior primary phase as well as senior primary phase.

'Henceforth, the readathon week should remind teachers to put more effort into reading and motivate learners to visit their school libraries often,' he stressed.

School libraries the chief education officer pointed out are also faced with challenges where they have an acute shortage of books.

The few books that are in the school libraries Makayi noted are old and the information they contain are no longer relevant.

'Another challenge is that our libraries are not conducive to read and work from as many are used as storerooms, offices and staff rooms,' he stated.

During the readathon week, the Goethe-institut Namibia in partnership with Namibia Library and Archive Services (NLAS) will run reading workshops for librarians and teachers.

Storytelling sessions for children and other activities to support awareness of reading for young people will also be held.

The readathon is held under the theme 'Read Namibia: Combat drought to improve food security'.

Close to 300 learners from 10 schools in the region are taking part in the readathon.
428
Placing women in leadership positions is not only the responsibility of government, but also the united efforts of society to maintain a balance between men and women, the German Ambassador to Ghana, Mr Christoph Retzlaff has stated.

According to him, it was important that the issue was discussed dispassionately since in his own estimation, many top positions, both in the public and private sector, was dominated by men.

Ambassador Retzlaff, was speaking at an inspirational and musical event dubbed, "Sounds of Gender: Engendered, not Endangered" geared towards women empowerment.

It was held in collaboration with the German Embassy in Accra and the Goethe-institut and was attended by women leaders and representatives from 26 African countries.

Speaking on the sidelines of the Deutsche Gesellschaft fÏr Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) Africa Department's Gender Network Meeting, a bi-annual forum for Gender Specialists and Focal Persons within the Africa Department, he cited for instance that at the last meeting of the Economic Community of West Arica States (ECOWAS), there were no female leaders at the meeting, adding that, more women needed to be empowered to take up many more positions in each country.

"The situation now as compared to the 70s is much better as a lot of progress has been made," Ambassador Retzlaff added.

Ms Yaa Akoto, a Ghanaian-German musician also known as "Y'akoto" who performed at the event said women in society have to believe in themselves and must pursue their dreams whether or not they conform to the choices made by their family or society.

She explained that from her life experience, there were many instances that were disadvantageous to her due to her gender as a woman, but through perseverance and determination, she was able to overcome them.

"Don't be afraid and don't be discouraged, whatever mistakes you make will turn into experience for you, so don't be belittled and stand up for what you believe in and you will succeed," she added.

Present at the occasion were the Director of Goethe-institut, Heike Friesel, and Country Director for GIZ Mr Alan Walsch.

Copyright 2019 Ghanaian Times. All rights reserved. Distributed by AllAfrica Global Media (allAfrica.com).
429
The Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine will continue to cooperate with international organizations in the implementation of the New Ukrainian School. The results of the cooperation and further plans were discussed, during a meeting between the Minister of Education and Science, Anna Novosad, and representatives of the British Council, the Goethe-institut, the Embassy of France in Ukraine, and the Pubridge University Press.

I want to thank you for the strong support you have provided for school reform over the last two years. It is very important for the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine to have partnerships with international organizations open to cooperation, Anna Novosad stressed.

In the early years of the introduction of the NUS, international organizations have been involved in the development of a training program for foreign language teachers. As a result, 268 trainers were trained - 190 change agents and 25 methodologists in English, 36 multipliers in German, 17 tutors in French. Thanks to their work, 17,000 English, 1,177 German and about 500 French teachers have been retrained.

A platform has also been created to support educators at NUS-English.com.ua. 230 English language teachers in pilot schools were offered the opportunity to take the Teaching Primary Learners Communicatively online course and materials from Cambridge University Press and MM Publication for free.

Anna Novosad emphasized that the implementation of the New Ukrainian School is continuing, so it is time to concentrate on the next steps. In particular, the development of teachers in grades 34, and the preparation for the next stage of reform, are currently relevant.

We are currently working at the elementary school level. And in two years we will get closer to basic secondary education - this is something to think about right now. We also think about how we can speed up school reform, said Anna Novosad.

Representatives of international organizations, for their part, said they were ready for further cooperation. The plans are to expand the tools that will help the development of Ukrainian teachers, as well as to conduct research that will help determine the level of knowledge of foreign languages ??among students. In addition, the meeting participants agreed to work out a detailed plan of follow-up with each partner organization.

Recall that in August 2019, the British Council, in conjunction with the Ministry of Education and Science, has trained 75 trainers for postgraduate institutions, which will teach teachers to integrate the development of 21st century skills in various subjects.
430
FOR the first time in its 22-year history, Cine Europa will be screening film classics at the Cinema 1 of Greenbelt 3 in Makati City starting September 20.

Every year, Cine Europa endeavors to reach out to more Filipinos. This time, it will travel to Bohol on October 11 and 12, in addition to its runs in the cities of Cebu, Baybay in Leyte and Iloilo.

The festival maintains its presence in the cities of Naga and Puerto Princesa, in addition to Makati and the Film Development Council of the Philippines's (FDCP) head office in Kalaw, Manila.

The European Union's Delegation to the Philippines's Charge d'Affaires a.i. Thomas Wiersing considers the film festival as the 'most influential cultural diplomacy tool'

'Cine Europa is a distinct way to showcase European cultural diversity, while opening up opportunities in the cultural and creative industries,' he said.

This year, 13 movies about the enduring tales of love, friendship, faith, triumph and courage will be presented by the Embassies of Belgium, Czech Republic, Denmark, France, Germany, Hungary, Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Spain, Sweden and the United Kingdom.

Polish film screened

The press-screening film was Cold War, a passionate love story between a man and a woman who meet in the ruins of post-war Poland. With different backgrounds and temperaments, they are fatally mismatched, yet fatefully condemned to each other.

Set against the backdrop of the 1950's Poland, Germany, Yugoslavia and France, the couple is separated by politics, character flaws and unfortunate twists of fate-an impossible love story in impossible times.

The film director is Pawel Pawlikowski, who cowrote the screenplay. His most recent film, Ida, was a global success. It won an Oscar, the British Academy of Film and Television Arts' recognition for Best Foreign Language Film, as well as five European Film Awards, including Best European Film, Best Director and Best Screenplay.

Said movie is a Polish-British-French production, which shows the interconnection of the European film industry, according to the Embassy of Poland's Charge d'Affaires a.i. Jaroslaw Szczepankiewicz.

Roadshow

Started in 1998, Cine Europa is the longest and most comprehensive film festival in the Philippines as it takes place across nine cities in a variety of venues: theaters, malls and universities.

The film festival will roll out at the Cinema 1 of Greenbelt 3 from September 20 to 24. It will head on to SM City in Cebu City and Iloilo City, in Bohol, then to Ateneo de Naga University and SM City Naga, Palawan State University and SM City Puerto Princesa, then to the Visayas State University in Baybay City, Leyte. The festival returns to Manila at the FDCP headquarters in November for its last leg.

Together with the EU Delegation to the Philippines and the embassies of some of its member-countries, Cine Europa 2019 is also presented in partnership with the Alliance Francaise-Manila, the British Council, the Goethe-institut, Instituto Cervantes and the Philippine-Italian Association.

Cine Europa has earned a niche among film enthusiasts in the country because of its strong collaboration with local partners, including the FDCP, Ayala Malls, SM Corp., the abovementioned universities, as well as the provincial governments of Bohol and Palawan.
431
Games and Politics is a series of events at the Goethe-institut Cyprus which deal with the role of games and gaming in society. It comprises an interactive exhibition of 18 computer games and three documentaries addressing current social issues. Three different film screenings will shed light on various aspects of gaming while at 'playthrough' evenings, the audience will have the possibility to discuss the game being played live with Cypriot and German experts.

The exhibition Games and Politics will be opened at the Goethe-institut on Wednesday, September 18 and curator Dr Jeannette Neustadt will be present to give an introduction to and guided tour through the exhibition.

"A game is always more than just a game," say the organisers. "Without considering the influence of the society that plays it, it remains just as impossible to understand as without considering its influence on that society.

"Like other media, computer games permit themselves to be harnessed by the political interests of any faction. Game designers are turning toward new themes and target audiences. Artists are using the medium in order to open its functions up to scrutiny and to explore where the boundary of games now lie. And the big museums are discovering computer games as cultural property, which is meant to be collected and preserved. Reflections on the phenomenon of computer games from the perspective of cultural sciences, however, continue to be few and far between in the discourse of art institutions."

The Goethe-institute's exhibition is intended to close this gap, at least in part. Games and Politics was produced in 2016 and is based on the exhibition Global Games shown in Karlsruhe, Germany. The exhibition curators selected politically ambitious computer games created between 2004 and 2016 which explore the limits and possibilities of the genre. Computer games conceive of themselves not merely as a (re-) presentation of social conditions and conflicts but attempt to simulate the processes and rules that give rise to these conflicts.

The interactive exhibition includes 18 computer games, of which 16 can be played. Visitors become players and experience first-hand how the games affect them. The games deal with topics such as media criticism, migration, power relations, gender roles and militarism on an artistic level. They are complemented by three documentaries on the subject.

What reading is for literature, a 'playthrough' is for computer games. On three evenings, selected games are played live, the course of the game is classified and commented on by Cypriot and German experts, and questions from the audience are answered. The award-winning games Papers, Please, Orwell and Perfect Woman will be presented and discussed. While Papers, Please deals with working at the border crossing of a dictatorial regime, Orwell deals with the dystopic consequences of digital surveillance technology and Perfect Woman investigates the question of what distinguishes a perfect woman.

The events include the screening of three films focussing on various aspects of gaming: the vulnerability of computer systems (War games), the limits of reality and play (Returning fire) and women and video games (GTFO).

Games and Politics

Series of events by the Goethe-institut Cyprus, which deals with the role and relevance of games and gaming in society. September 18-October 16. Goethe-institut Cyprus, Nicosia. Opening night 7.30pm. Opening hours: Monday -- Friday 10am -- 8pm. Closed on October 1 and 3. www.goethe.de/cyprus/gamesandpolitics

The post Games and politics appeared first on Cyprus Mail .
432
 general planning services for Goethe-institut dhaka (reconstruction, extension and refurbishment)

This contract is divided into lots: no

Time limit for receipt of tenders or requests to participate: date: 06/10/2019local time: 14:00

Other activity: education and culture

Major organization : Goethe-institut E.V. ZENTRALE

Address : Oskar-Von-Miller-Ring 18
433
Tenders are invited for electrical work and lighting cultural center august everding

Goethe-institut e.V. - zentrale 06.10.19published: 06.09.19

Award procedure: construction services

Offer period: 17.10.2019
434
As Gregor Samsa awoke one morning from uneasy dreams he found himself transformed in his bed into a monstrous vermin.- The Metamorphosis, Franz KafkaWhat if one day you wake up from an uncanny dream and find yourself transformed into a 'monstreous vermin' in your bed like Gregor Samsa of Franz Kafka's The Metamorphosis? Filmmaker and an ardent Kafka-enthusiast, Mika Johnson, with the help of his friend, Shahid Gulamali and a team of 30 professionals, blended the classic literature with modern technology of virtual reality. After six months of hard work, they presented a five-minute installation in which the viewer becomes a huge insect with six limbs and two tentacles. The show that was hosted in Prague by Goethe-institut has reached Kolkata after travelling to 33 cities, including Frankfurt, Madrid, Budapest, Helsinki and Oslo."My idea is not to tell the story. It is my representation of the literary piece. It is very different from opera, ballet, theatre or radio. It is a brand new technology to adapt the piece. VRwandlung's The Metamorphosis VR is not meant to take away what you imagined while reading the literary piece. Rather, it is meant to give you another perspective," said Mika while showcasing the project to CT on Wednesday, before it opens its doors to Kolkata at Max Mueller Bhavan. The installationIt is a small makeshift room separated from the main room with black curtains. In the room, there are three sets of wearables - a pair of gloves, a pair of slippers and of course, the VR headgear. Each mitten and slipper has trackers attached to it. "In the show, you become an insect," Mika explained. "The creature will have to have six limbs. Our hands and legs will work as two top and two bottom limbs and the other two are 3D animations," he added. The installation takes us to a small room with minute detailing. From bookracks and writing desk to wallpapers, bed and portraits, the surrounding becomes the locked room of Gregor Samsa - the protagonist of the piece. Virtual reality - a new mediumBut how do we know how an insect would see the world? "I didn't know," confessed Mika. "No one would know. Virtual Reality is so new a technology that there is no point of reference. You can't speak to any previous VR makers and ask how to do this. We did it through trial and error with our programmers. We used inverse kinematics to know how the trackers are relating to the movements of the arms and the legs," he said.There were several teams who looked after different aspects of the project. "We started with two Czech classic animators who created Gregor's room. This means, each and every object was handmade in miniature form and then scanned from 360 degree. From the bedside clock and the books to the portrait and drawers, every single item was handmade with care," Mika explained. After that, a group of 3D artistes worked with the items and reconstructed the room in 3D and then came the programmers to create Gregor's body that transforms into an insect. "For me, detailing was important. The portrait of the woman that is placed on the wall took days to shoot," Mika added. When Gregor Samsa meets KafkaBy his own admission, Mika is 'obsessed' with Kafka. He has been doing research for a feature film, Kafka's Sons, when he got hold of a book. "I have been reading him for decades. I was reading a book where I found the blueprint of Kafka's room. He was living in that room when he wrote The Metamorphosis. And what intrigued me was the resemblance of Gregor Samsa's room with the room of his creator. Kafka made this character's room an exact replica of his own room - what with similar doors, writing desk and everything else. So there are two layers of this installation. In the first layer, those who read the book (or those who didn't) will become Gregor Samsa. But if you know Kafka's biography, you will find some 50-odd items that we installed from Kafka's biography too. We tried to merge his room with his character's room. So, those who know that will get to recognise it," said Mika, who also teaches at the Film and TV School of the Academy of Performing Arts in Prague. The filmmaker insists that his work should not be seen as a form of 'storytelling'. "That has not been my intention. Kafka perhaps never wanted to show the insect. The whole project is my interpretation. Many people said that it is a sacrilege to touch a literary creation like this. But this is my take on the novella that is one of the most supreme literary creations of our generation," Mika said. His team, comprising composer Joseph Minadeo, sound designer Eli Stine, animators Ondrej Slavik and Vojta Kiss, producer Shahid Gulamali, programmers Vojtech Jankovsky and Eduard Fischer and team and Patrik Michalu and Patrik Velek, who did the animations, CGI and programming, are all eager to see how Kolkata receives their work.
435
The screening of 28 minutes-length short film, 'Meenalaap', directed by Suborna Senjutee Tushee recently held at the auditorium of Goethe-institut in the city.

This film is about transformation of life while living in a lonely city and about hope. Meenalap revolves around a Bengali couple migrated from a remote village of West Bengal to Pune city, working in a garments factory and struggling to meet the ends while expecting a child.

The film delves into the psychological changes of them in the realm of urban alienation in absence of own family and culture while becoming a mother and father from husband and wife for the first time.

Cultural activist Suborna Senjutee Tushee started her profession as a journalist in Dhaka, Bangladesh. Then she worked as copywriter in advertising sector. She was involved in-group theatre from her childhood. Postgraduate in economics, she worked in television as an anchor, as program-writer, and has experienced as Scriptwriter of Cinema, Television Drama and social welfare related creations. After finishing her Postgraduate Diploma in Film Direction and Script Writing from Film and Television Institute of India, Pune she is practicing film making in Bangladesh. Recently, she got Seven International Award for her Debut Short Film 'Meenalaap'.
436
Contract notice: Provision of Framework contract restructuring of web content for goethe.de

the internet section of the Goethe-institut in munich is looking for a service provider to restructure its web content. As part of the continuous relaunch of goethe.de, The overall structure, The country portals (eg german courses, German examinations, Events, Editorial offers) and long-term, Extensive project sites are being constantly optimized. The restructuring of the content is the focus of this invitation to tender. This includes, For example, The restructuring of existing headings, The integration of project sites into the standard pages, Or support for content entry of new web offers (for details, See tender documents).

This contract is divided into lots: No

time limit for receipt of tenders or requests to participate: Date: 04/10/2019local time: 14:00

other activity: Bildung und kultur

Major organization : Goethe-institut E. V. ZENTRALE

Address : Oskar-Von-Miller-Ring 18.
437
Tenders are invited for delivery of automatic license plate recognition systems, stationary and mobile, for the police saxony

Goethe-institut e.V. - zentrale 03.10.19published: 04.09.19

Award procedure: delivery services

Offer period: 04.10.2019.
438
 As part of the publication of the 65th issue of the German 'Place Skateboard Culture' magazine, the German culture centre Goethe-institut will organise as of September 7 the 1st exhibition dedicated to skateboard in Tunisia.

Designed in collaboration with world-renowned artist Stefan Marx, the 65th issue of the magazine was the result of a project started in April 2019, when the Place Skateboard Culture team accompanied by several professional skateboarders decided to visit Tunisia for a 'skate trip.'

On this occasion, the Goethe-institut will organise on September 7 a free cultural event for the skate culture. An exhibition and the screening of 'The Gravity Zone' video sequence filmed and edited by Louis Deschamps on the skate trip in Tunisia are also scheduled on the same day.
439
Tenders are invited for pre-project evaluation of the applicability of office 365 in the Goethe-institut

City of hildesheim 06.09.19published: 26.08.19

Award procedure: information technology

Offer period: 18.09.2019

Major organization : Goethe-institut EV - ZENTRALE

Address : 80333 Mnchen Bayern.
440
Tenders are invited for delivery of a robotic lawnmower

Goethe-institut e.V. - zentrale 18.09.19published: 26.08.19

Award procedure: delivery services

Offer period: 16.09.2019

Major organization : STADT EBERSWALDE

Address : 16225 Eberswalde Brandenburg.
441
The acclaimed series of classical music concerts at the Goethe-institute continues with the Chamber Music Society of Colombo (CMSC) presenting Bela BartEk's 44 Violin Duets on 25 August at 7 p.m. The concert will be held at the Goethe-institut Hall.

Violin duos and duets are an essential part of the chamber music repertory. Is there a difference between a violin duo and a violin duet? Yes, the former is for two solo violins exclusively, and the latter can have supplementary accompaniment, usually a basso-continuo or an orchestra.

There are several different types of duos and duets in classical music; you can have violin-viola, violin-cello, viola-cello, and many other variations with different instrument families. Even with all of the available varieties, instrumental duos are rather rare: they are underplayed, under-recorded, and quite underappreciated.

The solo violin-violin duo repertory is relatively small. That said, this form rose in popularity in the twentieth century as composers began to compose chamber music for much smaller ensembles. A reason for this is that with two significant world wars, many musicians were either fighting or were casualties of war.Since they were composed in the 20th Century, many of the violin duos by Honegger, BartEk, and Prokofiev are more harmonically and structurally experimental than the standard classical fare. Moderating and performing will be the Artistic Director of the CMSC, Lakshman Joseph-de Saram and Principals of the CMSC, Ursula Nelius, violin. Haasinee Andree, violin and Sulara Nanayakara, violin. The duets will also feature select students of Ursula Nelius and Haasinee Andree.

Interspersing the BartEk will be the neo-Baroque Violin and Cello duets by Russian 20th Century composer Reinhold Gliere, performed by Lakshman Joseph-de Saram and Rochana Ramanayaka, cello. Tickets available at the Goethe-institut from 5 August; Rs. 1,000, first come, first served.
442
Tenders are invited for Provision of Software service middleware

Award procedure: Information technology

Offer period: 24.09.2019

Major organization : Goethe-institut EV - ZENTRALE

Address : 80333 Mnchen Bayern

Country :Germany.
443
Life during the communist era in East and Central Europe will be shown on the big screen as the three-day Czech Film Festival in Manila features the fall of the Berlin Wall that led to the breakdown of the communist regime in the region.

"We hope that thanks to the 'Iron Curtain Film Festival', we can help (the) Filipino audience understand better the history of (the) 20th century and appreciate the freedom that we have as democratic nations,' said Czech Ambassador Jana A ediva on Tuesday as she promoted the film festival from August 22 to 24 at the University of the Philippines Film Institute (UPFI).

A ediva, who will expound more about Czechoslovakia and the communist regime, shared that she herself had personally witnessed the democratic transition of her country.

'I have experienced both the Communist era and our countryA's transition to democracy. In 1989, people were united in their desire to break with the past and see the end of communism, full of hardships and oppression of freedom," she said.

The term Iron Curtain is a metaphorical description of the imaginary boundary that divided Europe into two areas from the end of World War II in 1945 to the end of the Cold War in 1991.

It became more tangible as the Berlin Wall was put up in August 1961, serving as a visible reminder of the divide between the Communist East and the Democratic West.

The fall of the Berlin Wall that divided East and West Germany or the non-violent protests in then Czechoslovakia, known as the Velvet Revolution, brought an end to communist totalitarian regimes and began the ascension towards democracy.

In commemoration of these historical events, the Czech Embassy in Manila and the Goethe-institut, in partnership with the UPFI, will be showing films that tackle life during that time.

For the duration of the event -- free but subject to first-come, first-served basis -- three Czech films and two German films that tackle communism and the life in it will be shown.
444
Thirty creative individuals, including actors, Theatre practitioner, dancers, visual artists, filmmakers, photographers and others from all over India, as well as social and cultural activists and educationists, are joining hands to explore their creativity with a focus on looking at everyday incidents in Five Million Incidents - a project initiated by Goethe-institut / Max Mueller Bhavan. From installations to films and other arts, the artistes will aim to discover new relationships between their creativity and everyday incidents they see. The project, which will take place in Kolkata and Delhi, will run for a year. According to a spokesperson, the project aims at expanding the notion of art as an extension of everyday experiences of life. "Numerous practitioners of different art disciplines will explore the 'process of making' as a moment of sharing and interaction with you, the audience," he said.The spokesperson also added, "Five million incidents is a process of generating temporal and sometimes ephemeral collective moments of working, learning, listening, sharing, engaging and of becoming. It is a process of bridging the gap between disciplinary processes and our everyday activities. Incidents will emerge and dissolve around the architectural situation of the Goethe-institut. They will transcend and transform our everyday relationship with the Goethe-institut premises and its daily activities through intrusion, intervention, disruption and participation by 30 artists from all over India. The nature of each incident will reveal itself only in your presence, sometimes in the span of an hour, sometimes in the course of several weeks or even months."
445
Tenders are invited for providing a tool to conduct online surveys for the Goethe-institut

District erzgebirgskreis 16.09.19published: 20.08.19

Award procedure: information technology

Offer period: 18.09.2019

Major organization : Goethe-institut EV - ZENTRALE

Address : 80333 Mnchen Bayern

Country :Germany.
446
Given the number of applications that we have been receiving from artists across the world, it's extremely exciting to know that there are actually so many people working on the subject of gender, most of which is quite impactful. It's a learning experience for us, each passing year, with new definitions and laws coming out so often. The discourse on gender is vast and there's always something new to gather about gender," says Shiva Pathak of Sandbox Collective, which is set to open the fifth chapter of Gender Bender in Bengaluru. The 2019 edition comes with a lineup of discussions and displays that traverse the narratives of gender identities, diversity-inclusion and empowerment. Stand-up comedian Vasu Primlani is opening the four-day festival at Bangalore International Centre on August 21, with an act called Who You Callin' A Lady? Curated in association with Goethe-institut Max Mueller Bhavan, the fest will showcase a series of gender-centric performances, photographs, interactive installations, movie screenings and more. Bangalore Times gives you a broader picture...When a male belly dancer blurs boundaries of body typeBelly dancer Eshan Hilal's performance is an attempt to transcend boundaries of movement arts by mixing elements of belly dancing with that of Kathak. The piece is called Raqs-e-Bender - raqs meaning dance, while 'bender' refers to a person who bends the norms of society. "It's an effort to show that dance is beyond gender and body type. The two-part show pays tribute to the age-old courtesan or tawaif culture, while trying to look beyond the taboo associated with mujras. It's a blend of the expressive abhinay techniques of Kathak and the instrumental elements of belly dancing," explains Eshan, who is also a fashion designer and a gender-fluid model.Lending an ear to stories of women's self-assertionShort story writer Anjana Balakrishnan - along with her teammates Sunayana Premchander, Thejesh GN and Yashodara Udupa - have come up with a curious method of urban storytelling, called On Her Own. It's a multimedia platform that relay audio stories via a phone booth. All you need to do is call a certain number to listen to these stories. Currently, some 35 tales are available in five different languages. The listener can also respond to the call with her own story."These narratives are chiefly about the common women whose life experiences are not necessarily as heroic as that of the Rani of Jhansi or Kalpana Chawla. We have woven stories that are often dubbed 'insignificant', but at the same time they are the most relatable that nudge one to reflect on," says Anjana.
447
Given the number of applications that we have been receiving from artists across the world, it's extremely exciting to know that there are actually so many people working on the subject of gender, most of which is quite impactful. It's a learning experience for us, each passing year, with new definitions and laws coming out so often. The discourse on gender is vast and there's always something new to gather about gender,ö says Shiva Pathak of Sandbox Collective, which is set to open the fifth chapter of Gender Bender in Bengaluru. The 2019 edition comes with a lineup of discussions and displays that traverse the narratives of gender identities, diversity-inclusion and empowerment. Stand-up comedian Vasu Primlani is opening the four-day festival at Bangalore International Centre on August 21, with an act called Who You Callin' A Lady? Curated in association with Goethe-institut Max Mueller Bhavan, the fest will showcase a series of gender-centric performances, photographs, interactive installations, movie screenings and more. Bangalore Times gives you a broader pictureàBelly dancer Eshan Hilal's performance is an attempt to transcend boundaries of movement arts by mixing elements of belly dancing with that of Kathak. The piece is called Raqs-e-Benderraqs meaning dance, while 'bender' refers to a person who bends the norms of society. ôIt's an effort to show that dance is beyond gender and body type. The two-part show pays tribute to the age-old courtesan or tawaif culture, while trying to look beyond the taboo associated with mujras. It's a blend of the expressive abhinay techniques of Kathak and the instrumental elements of belly dancing,ö explains Eshan, who is also a fashion designer and a gender-fluid model.Short story writer Anjana Balakrishnanalong with her teammates Sunayana Premchander, Thejesh GN and Yashodara Udupahave come up with a curious method of urban storytelling, called On Her Own. It's a multimedia platform that relay audio stories via a phone booth. All you need to do is call a certain number to listen to these stories. Currently, some 35 tales are available in five different languages. The listener can also respond to the call with her own story.ôThese narratives are chiefly about the common women whose life experiences are not necessarily as heroic as that of the Rani of Jhansi or Kalpana Chawla. We have woven stories that are often dubbed 'insignificant', but at the same time they are the most relatable that nudge one to reflect on,ö says Anjana.
448
 Butheina Kazim has brought the magic of art-house movies to Dubai, through her project Cinema Akil.

Having worked in television, radio and film acquisitions, Butheina Kazim founded Cinema Akil in 2014 as a platform for independent cinema. For Kazim, who has also produced her own film "Letters to Palestine," the project is about more than just watching films, it's also for building community.

She introduced the concept with pop-up screenings, but since last year Cinema Akil has a permanent theatre in Dubai's art district on Al-Serkal Avenue. Step into the 133-seater theater, and you are transported to an old-school picture house.

"The permanent space allows us to release films every single night of the year. The programming is often exclusive and can't be seen elsewhere," said Kazim. But the pop-up format will always be part of Cinema Akil. "Our nomadic life allows us to reach different communities by bringing free public cinema to people."

Kazim works closely with special events such as Dubai Shopping Festival's Market Out of the Box and Fashion Forward initiatives and has screened over 350 films across Dubai, Abu Dhabi and Sharjah.

In summer, the cinema space's robust line-up continues. "There's a mythical Dubai exodus that everyone speaks of as soon as summer hits," said Kazim. Some of Cinema Akil's August highlights include "Straight Out of Berlin," a series of eight films in collaboration with the Goethe-institut, which explores the many faces and tunnels of the German capital city.

There was even a "Cat Weekend" on International Cat Day earlier this month, when films that celebrate all things feline were screened.

Kazim has been encouraged by the region's response to art cinema: "We've been blown away by the enthusiasm. Films we never expected to succeed, such "Cold War" by Pawel Pawlikowski and "Capernaum" by Nadine Labaki, had a wonderful response. It's magical when that happens."

Kazim's next goal is to expand the Cinema Akil concept from Dubai to the region, giving cinephiles all over the Gulf a chance to enjoy independent films.
449
FIRST of its kind in Asia, the International Silent Film Festival (ISFF) prides itself on being a venue for eclectic musicians to infuse their art into forgotten classics, as they add new gradients to black-and-white films while their flavor sparks new interest in the younger set.

Once again, the Film Development Council of the Philippines (FDCP), the Japan Foundation-Manila, the Instituto Cervantes, the Philippine-Italian Association, the Goethe-institut Philippinen and the Embassy of Austria bring to local movie aficionados a 'one-of-a-kind, quirky experience that won't disappoint.'

Loyal audiences, since 2007, have joined the ISFF to witness an exceptional array of curated silent films, which have been made fresh with original scores performed live.

On its 13th edition, the ISFF joins the Philippines in celebrating its first centenary in cinema-considered a milestone in Southeast Asia.

Professor Nick Deocampo, author and film historian, will share his extensive knowledge in Asian filmmaking during his lecture on August 31 at 1 p.m.

The FDCP will open the festival on Friday, August 30 at 8:30 p.m. with a presentation of a 37-minute documentary about the Kalingas, which was directed by Dean C. Worcester in 1913. Teddy Co, who chairs the film commission of the National Commission for Culture and the Arts, selected the film, which will be live scored by local indie band Munimuni.

On Saturday, August 31 at 3 p.m., the Japan Foundation-Manila will present The Downfall of Osen (1935) by Kenji Mizoguchi, a story about a beautiful servant girl used by her unscrupulous employer, an antique dealer, to help his illegal business. A live musical performance by Kaduma ni Karol will accompany the film.

On the said date at 5:30 p.m., Instituto Cervantes will present a comedy directed by Carlos Fernandez Cuenca, Es Mi Hombre ('He's My Man,' 1926). The film tells about Don Antonio who, beset by misfortune, must fend for himself and his daughter Leonor, until luck smiles upon him unexpectedly after a series of odd jobs. Tarsius, a Manila-based duo, will take on the live score for the film.

The Philippine-Italian Association completes the August 31 offerings at 8:30 p.m. as it will present L'Onesta del Peccato ('The Wife He Neglected,' 1918), directed by Augusto Genia. The film revolves around the tragic character of Maria d'Alconte played by an intense Maria Jacobini. Her sacrifice restores order and justice in a world weighed by greed and arrogant intellectualism. Collaboration between Stef and No, a sax player and composer from Turin, together with the Pocket Orchestra, will provide a fresh score for the silent movie.

On Sunday, September 1 at 4 p.m., the Goethe-institut will screen Von Morgens Bis Mitternachts ('From Morn to Midnight,' 1920) directed by Karlheinz Martin. An adaptation from the Expressionist theater play by George Kaiser, the story centers on a bank teller who gives into temptation and steals from a rich old lady. The movie, which never saw the light of day in Germany, was thought to be lost. Anima Tierra, a unique ensemble inspired by traditional world music, will play the live score.

At 7:30 p.m., the Embassy of Austria will present Kalif Storch (1924), directed by Hans Berger. The film tells about the misadventures of Caliph Chasid of Baghdad and his Grand Vizier Mansor after they buy magic powder from a wizard. Based on a fairy-tale by Wilhelm Hauff, the movie is one of the few remaining family-friendly flicks from the Austrian silent film era. Rock band Tanya Markova shall take on scoring duties for this year's closing film.

The 13th International Silent Film Festival is made possible in partnership with SM Aura Premier, with the support of the Embassy of Italy, Cinetecadi Bologna, Embassy of Japan, Embassy of Spain, Filmoteca Espanola, Matsuda Film Productions, Globe, HearLife Foundation Inc., Med El, Barista and Coffee Academy of Asia.
450
City's theatre enthusiasts are gearing up for a 10-day residential workshop on dramaturgy - the theory and practice of dramatic composition. Hosted by the Goethe-institut / Max Mueller Bhavan, this workshop is aimed at supporting theatre workers with skills and tools of the dramaturgical process while composing plays. Over a period of 10 days, participants will learn all about dramaturg in a rehearsal format. They will learn how to participate in the rehearsal room as a dramaturg and how to apply dramaturgical skills to their own creative processes - be it writing, directing, devising or designing. Sophia Stepf, who designed the course along with Jehan Manekshaw, said, "Dramaturgy is a mind-set and a skill set that theatre people can use to help their theatre community make better plays. If dramaturgy is developed strongly in a theatre community, it will raise the quality of productions." Sophia has worked with students of the National School of Drama and also with the Drama School Mumbai, which was founded by Jehan. Jehan, who has been working in India for years now, said, "The conditions of theatremaking in India have often been challenging, and as such the idea of a formal role of the dramaturg, is seen as a luxury. In our context we are more used to colleagues as creative sounding boards, and get feedback mainly during the run of a show. A dramaturgical process in the room would give most productions a stronger chance to achieve the depth and richness that were always there, but weren't completely unearthed."
451
Contract notice: procurement of a cloud-based software solution for community management services for the alumni portal Deutschland

1) actual situation: A) the alumniportal germany: The alumniportal deutschland is a cooperation of the alexander von humboldt foundation, The Goethe-institut, And the german academic exchange service (daad) (cooperation management). The alumniportal deutschland is funded by the federal foreign office. The portal promotes the networking and knowledge exchange of germany alumni, Companies, Universities and organizations. Germany alumni are people from all over the world who have studied, Researched, Worked at a german institution, Completed a further education or a german course. The alumniportal deutschland was opened in 2008 and currently has over 165,000 registered members. Central content of the offer alumniportal deutschland is an internet platform with its 2 core areas, The community and the website, At the url www.alumniportal-deutschland.org , With which germany alumni and / or their funding organizations, For example, Network, (re) find, Exchange ideas, Get to know each other, Communicate via news, Discussion forums and other means, And find out about german topics, German language, Studies, Further education and careers; B) current software solution of the alumniportal germany: The following section describes the current software solution in relation to this call for tender. It is based on the open source software typo3 (currently version 7.6 lts) for the informational area of the website as well as on an originally elgg 1.5 based community, Which has been extensively changed by its own extensions and modules as well as numerous frameworks (eg symphony) https (ssl) can be achieved. The portal is used around the world from all over the world and offers an annual average availability of 99.5%. Core elements of the alumniportal are an interactive website with an information area ( https://www.alumniportal-deutschland.org/ ) and a community area for registered members ( https://www.alumniportal-deutschland.org/nc/services/login / ), In which they log in to a personalized portal, Present themselves with profiles and get access to exclusive information and networking and exchange opportunities, Etc. For a better understanding of the portal, We recommend creating an account on the alumniportal. Registration and use of the portal are free. 2) target situation (service packages and requirements for the service provider). Subject of this framework agreement is only the application for the community area. The new community management solution is to be provided as a software-as-a-service (saas) for the members of the alumniportal germany, Which must work on all common and up-to-date devices, Eg. As calculator, Notebook, Smartphones and tablets. By awarding the contract to the new software so

Major organization : DEUTSCHER AKADEMISCHER AUSTAUSCHDIENST E. V.

Address : Kennedyallee 50.
452
Ethnomusicologist, musician and co-founder of Pakistan's leading comprehensive music symposium, Lahore Music Meet, Natasha Noorani is set to represent Pakistan in Germany this August as the only musician from the country for the 5th Annual Goethe Talents Programme 2019.

Indeed, Natasha Noorani will be one of 10 musicians from across the world to participate in the 10-day Goethe Talents Scholarship, scheduled to take place from 14th to the 24th of August in Berlin.

The Goethe Talents Programme 2019 aims to support and connect young, aspiring musical artists including singer-songwriters, composers and DJs. A cooperation between the Goethe-institut and "Pop-Kultur", the scholarship will offer a variety of activities to experience the "music city" Berlin before the actual Festival: Studio visits, jam-sessions, short traineeships in selected companies from Berlin's creative industries, listening sessions and meetings with scholarship holders of the Musicboard Berlin GmbH. Indeed, the scholarship is directed at musicians between 20 and 30 years of age who have already gained some experience in the field of music and have a solid grasp of the English language.

Natasha Noorani, selected via the worldwide network of Goethe-institut, is a Lahore based singer-songwriter, playback singer, festival director and music promoter. As a musician, her music lies somewhere between the realms of contemporary R&B, neo-soul and progressive rock which can be heard in her debut EP 'Munaasib'. Noorani has also collaborated with various Pakistani acts including Strings, Biryani Brothers, Ali Suhail, Sikandar Ka Mandar & Gentle Robot.

Currently pursuing a MMus in Ethnomusicology from the School of Oriental & African Studies (SOAS), Noorani also featured in the summer blockbuster film, Baaji, on the song Ye Aaj Mujh Ko Kya Hua as a playback singer for 'Meera Ji'. Noorani has also been deeply involved in the Pakistani music industry having co-founded South-Asia's premiere music festival, Lahore Music Meet (LMM). Since its inception, Lahore Music Meet has brought together enthusiasts, artisans, artists, patrons, industry representatives and academics to initiate dialogue on the developments and shortcomings in music in Pakistan. Most recently, Noorani served as General Manager for the Pakistan's leading music platform, Coke Studio Pakistan (Season 10) and has managed South-Asian pop duo, Strings.

Noorani plans to release more music later this year.
453
An event titled 'Berlinale Talents: Application Panel Bangladesh' was held at the Goethe-institut Bangladesh auditorium in the capital's Dhanmondi area recently.

Goethe-institut Bangladesh, in cooperation with the Berlinale Talents programme, Berlin, Germany organised the event to provide information to the aspiring local filmmakers, so that they may prepare their applications accordingly following the ongoing Call for Entries to join the Berlinale Talents 2020 to be held from 22 to 27 February 2020 in Berlin, Germany.

Welcoming the filmmakers and the audience, Dr Kirsten Hackenbroch, Goethe-institut Bangladesh, said, "With today's 'Berlinale Talents Application Panel in Bangladesh,' we want to give all film community members planning to apply for Berlinale Talents 2020 a chance to hear first-hand experiences from two alumni of 2019 and to get your questions answered by them as well as the Berlinale Talent programme manager. For all others, we hope this panel inspires you for your future film careers."

Joined from Berlin through a video conference call, Berlinale Talents' Programme Manager Florian Weghorn gave an in-depth insight into the application process and selection criteria and answered numerous questions of attending filmmakers, producers, journalists and so on.

The Berlin International Film Festival's talent development programme for 250 emerging filmmakers and drama series creators from all over the world.

Berlinale Talents is an initiative of the Berlin International Film Festival, a business division of the Kulturveranstaltungen des Bundes in Berlin GmbH, funded by the Federal Government Commissioner for Culture and the Media, in cooperation with Creative Europe MEDIA, a programme of the European Union, the Robert Bosch Stiftung and Medienboard Berlin-Brandenburg. It was initiated in 2003.

Berlinale Talents 2019, took place from 9 to 14 February, HAU Hebbel am Ufer, Germany.

While the roots of Berlinale Talents are firmly planted in Berlin new shoots of the initiative have been sprouting internationally.

These Talents International editions, Talents Beirut in Lebanon, Talents Buenos Aires in Argentina, Talents Guadalajara in Mexico, Talents Durban in South Africa, Talents Sarajevo in Bosnia-Herzegovina and Talents Tokyo in Japan have the familiar structure and purpose of their German counterpart; all the while retaining a regional perspective and finding support and the necessary amenities in a locally based international film festival. Talents initiatives are supported by local partners as well as by the Goethe-institut.

In addition to the extensive summit programme of master classes and panel discussions with top-notch experts, Berlinale Talents offers a range of Project Labs in which one can further develop and present his/her own project. Berlinale Talents also provides Studio programmes and workshops for specific groups of film professionals. As an initiative of the Berlin International Film Festival, the entire event is closely linked with the programmes of the festival sections and the European Film Market.
454
 With the motive to foster German Language and to bridge the gap between the two cultures, DPS Bokaro in association with Goethe-institut organised a theatre today in the school campus.

Two renowned theatre artists Kai Meisters and Stefani Siebers from Germany who are a part of the German theatre group 'Die Mimosen' came all the way from Germany to motivate young minds.

They staged an interesting play 'Josephine Und die Bruder des Windes' on the theme water crisis and highlighted the need to save depleting resources. They also conducted a creative workshop to enhance artistic thinking and make children confident and expressive.

The theatre was organised in association with Goethe-institut, Kolkata and is a part of the prestigious PASCH network membership earned by DPS Bokaro this year.

Addressing the students the artists said that it was indeed a wonderful experience to see enthusiastic learners and the German Learning Culture. Speaking on the occasion Principal DPS Bokaro A. S. Gangwar said such programmes help children discover their creative voices and develop in them a sense of individuality besides giving an understanding of the global culture.

Adding another feather in the cap DPS Bokaro emerged as the overall winner in the Zonal Inter DPS Annual Dance Competition-'Nrityanjali-2019' which was held at DPS Nazira, Assam.
455
The acclaimed partnership between the Chamber Music Society of Colombo (CMSC) and the Goethe-institut continues with the performance of Bela BartEk's 44 Violin Duets on 25 August at 7pm. The concert will be held at the Goethe-institut Hall.

The 44 Duos for Two Violins, Sz. 98, BB 104 is a series of duets composed in 1931 by Hungari-an Bela BartEk, one of the most influential 20th century composers. The work was commissioned by Erich Doflein, a German violinist and teacher, who asked BartEk if he would arrange some of the pieces from the 'For Children' series. He composed other works in this period that were meant to be pedagogical, such as 'Mikrokosmos.' All of the 44 duos are based on folk music from many Eastern European coun-tries, with distinctive BartEkian harmonic and rhythmic impact evident throughout the whole piece. Moderating and performing will be the Artistic Director of the CMSC, Lakshman Joseph-de Saram and principals of the CMSC, Ursula Nelius, violin, Haasinee Andree, violin and Sulara Nanayakkara, violin. The duets will also feature select students of Ursula Nelius and Haasinee Andree. Interspersing the BartEk will be the Neo-Baroque Violin and Cello duets by Russian 20th century composer Reinhold Gliere, performed by Lakshman Joseph-de Saram and Rochana Ramanayaka, cello. Tickets available at the Goethe-institut Tickets priced at Rs. 1000, first come, first served.
456
Contract notice: creation of a german-speaking, scientific hiking exhibition "the great riddles of science" for use in the language work of the Goethe-institut

The subject of the invitation to tender is a science-oriented hiking exhibition in german with the working title "unforested continents. the big puzzles of science ". cooperation partners are the fraunhofer gesellschaft and the max planck society. the exhibition is aimed at learners of german all over the world (language level a2 / b1, aged 14-20) at secondary schools, universities, institutions and at the Goethe-instituts. as a result, interactive elements, the use of digital media, are important. the theme of the exhibition is exemplarily 5 thematic areas of modern science, which are often referred to as "great puzzles": the universe, the deep sea, our consciousness (the "world in the head"), the cultural development of man and the field of artificial intelligence. we are looking for the development of the concept, the design and the production of the exhibition. further information: see specifications.
457
Tenders are invited for creation of a german-speaking, scientific hiking exhibition

Lmbv lausitzer and mitteldeutsche ... 03.09.19published: 31.07.19

Award procedure: services

Offer period: 29.08.2019

Major organization : Goethe-institut EV - ZENTRALE

Address : 80333 Mnchen Bayern
458
Tenders are invited for thermal insulation composite system - wet research

Goethe-institut e.V. - zentrale 29.08.19published: 31.07.19

Award procedure: construction services

Offer period: 27.08.2019

Major organization : UNIVERSITTSKLINIKUM DSSELDORF

Address : 40225 Dsseldorf Nordrhein-Westfalen

Country :Germany

Notice type : Tender Notice.
459
Looking for a combination of good films, with important social concerns? Wishing to spend a day or two delving in the depth of artsy cinema coupled with other fun events? Then this event deems fit for you, film buffs of the city. The 10th edition of the Bangalore Queer Film Festival (BQFF) would take place from August 1 to August 4 and the line-up of events look extremely interesting - ranging from exhibitions to screenings - making the entire experience enjoyable and wholesome. The biggest film festival in South India when it comes to queer representation, the event is organized solely with the aim of inculcating good films for the Bengalurean audience when it comes queer cinema, introducing many genres in the category - non-western films, films that have been made by independent filmmakers and also films that bring out the concern of the LGBTQIA+ community. Some of the imminent films that are going to be screened are Tathagatha Ghosh's Miss Man and Rohan Kanwade's U Ushacha (U for Usha). Namita Aavriti, co-organiser and curator of the event, says that this edition would hold a lot of uniqueness when it comes to the content of the films. Speaking on what the films would cater to the audience, she says, "We have chosen Asian films mainly this year, films that have been applauded for their portrayal of our community and so on. The aim hasn't mainly been to address issues, because a huge part of our turnout is from the community itself, it is to share the stories that everyone could relate to, everyone would have a good, memorable time, seeing." Watch out for! 1.An art exhibition on all the days which would showcase the works of three artists, Aryakrishnan R, Renuka Rajiv and Sandip Kuriakose, who would be exploring the various facets of the queer community, through their art. The exhibition, which is named Hold You Close, would try to establish the sense of queer-time and queer-space. 2.The second day of the event would host a play named Nanna Dwani (I Have a Voice) which would be performed in the medium of Kannada and Tamil, written and directed by theatre artist and writer, A Revathi. The play is a dramatized version of Revathi's autobiography and it talks about Revathi's life, her community and more, ending with a poem written by her daughter, Kalki. 3.The third day of the festival would feature a pop-up bookstore which would hold curated content, compiled by the organizers. This content would refer to queer topics, like the community's representation, narratives and so on. The day would be concluded with a panel discussion as well, the topic being, 'How to make a queer image'. 4.The fourth and final day would begin with a panel discussion on 'The Language of Films' and would be concluded on a soulful note with poetry, performed by poetic personalities like Hoshang Merchant, Vikramaditya Sahai, Namita Aavriti and Joshua Muyiwa, who would be enthralling the audience with their compositions. Their genres when it comes to the performance would revolve around different emotions of humans like love, lust, happiness, queerness. Hoshang Merchant's latest book, The Gay Icons of India, would also be launched on the last day of the event. The writer-poet has been known previously for his books, Flower to Fame, Stone to Fruit and more, which have contributed to the genre of poetry. He has also been known for editing the first gay anthology in the country, named Yaarana.Date: August 1 to 4, 10.00 am to 10.30 pm Venues: Goethe-institut / Max Mueller Bhavan.
460
When Jijo Kuriakose met Sanjo, a transman, what struck him was Sanjo's penchant to connect every aspect of life, even his gender identity, to mathematics. Further conversations only piqued Kuriakose's curiosity and the Kochi-based research analyst decided to make a short film on Sanjo. The result, a 15-minute film, Njan Sanjo (I'm Sanjo), is one of the films that will be screened during the seventh edition of 'Reel Desires: Chennai International Queer Film Festival' (CIQFF).The festival, which will be held from August 2 to 4 at the Goethe-institut auditorium, features films, shorts and documentaries showcasing sexuality and gender diversity issues. oThis is Chennai's first film festival after the landmark Supreme Court verdict of 2018 decriminalising LGBTIQ relationships,o says Chennai-based L Ramakrishnan, a member of the festival curating team. This year's line-up consists of 26 films from 12 countries, selected via a community-led review process from nearly 120 submissions from around the world.Njan Sanjo, for instance, documents the life of Sanjo, who lives in a transphobic suburban locality. oIt deals with his struggles, such as lack of a full-time job,o says Kuriakose, who is also the founder of Queerala, a community-based organisation for Malayali LGBTIQ people.Other Indian films include Tamil short film 'Oruvanukku Oruththi?' (A woman for a man?), by Vimal Santiagu. oThe 17-minute film revolves around a young man and woman who are not interested in arranged marriage but are forced to meet by their parents. But when they strike a conversation, they find that they have more in common as he is bisexual and she is gender fluid. They talk about past relationships, problems they faced,o says Vimal.The festival is being organised by Orinam and Goethe-institut, in partnership with Nirangal, Chennai Queer Cafe (CQC), SAATHII, and East-West Center for Counselling and Training. Feature films such as 'Song Lang' (Vietnamese), which explores the unlikely bond that forms between an underground debt collector and a cai luong (Vietnamese opera) performer against the backdrop of Saigon in the 1980s, will be screened. 'Reel Desires' will also feature films from Berlinale Spotlight (Berlin International Film Festival), Germany, and Public Service Broadcasting Trust (PSBT), India.Tribute will also be paid to professor Shankar Ganesan, one of the earliest openly queer academics and an active member of the film festival volunteer team, who died recently. oA panel discussion, 'Inclusion 2.0: LGBTQA+ rights after the NALSA and Johar Supreme Court verdicts', will also be held on August 3. It will look at the way forward in various domains u education, healthcare, employment, media and law,o says Ramakrishnan. The Chennai premiere of 'Freedom Begum - In Search of Lost Stories', a multilingual play by Raahi, a Bangalore-based group of sexual and gender minorities, will be held on August 4. The play has been scripted by Rumi Harish and directed by A Mangai.
461
 Goethe-institut-Max Mueller Bhavan will join hands with Chennai Photo Biennale (CPB) Foundation, Cinema Rendezvous and Indo Cine Appreciation Foundation, to trace the histories of Indian and German cinema from about a century ago, in a festival titled 'Enchanted Networks - The Light of Asia'.At the end of WW1, while Germany transitioned from Kaiser Wilhelm's monarchy to the Weimar Republic, India was a colonised conglomerate of princely states announcing a peaceful revolution to become an independent state. It was also around this time that collaborations between Indians and Germans sought to reinvent aesthetic norms that rebelled against the conventions of the 19th century.'Enchanted Networks - The Light of Asia' will throw light on this cultural confluence through themes such as discrimination and the nation-state, and how the Indian melodramatic screenplay blended with German expressionist film techniques. It will include discussions by professors Suresh Chabria and Ramu Manivannan around expressionistic classics like 'The Cabinet of Dr Caligari' by Robert Wiene, 'Nosferatu' by FW Murnau, 'Dr Mabuse, the Gambler' by Fritz Lang and the cult classic 'Metropolis' by Fritz Lang.Orientalist films such as 'The Indian Tomb' by Joe May will also be discussed. The festival has been conceived by Helmut Schippert, director, Goethe-institut Chennai and curated by K Hariharan and Uma Vangal, film scholars. 
462
Bangor University of United Kingdom has issued the following news release:

Winners and finalists displaying their trophies with Councillor John Wyn Williams, Mayor of Bangor, and Hywel Williams, MP for Arfon (left).

Winners and finalists displaying their trophies with Councillor John Wyn Williams, Mayor of Bangor, and Hywel Williams, MP for Arfon (left).

Over thirty year seven pupils from eleven schools across Wales came to Bangor University recently to compete in the national final of the Routes into Languages Cymru Spelling Bee competition, a collaborative project between five Welsh universities, the four regional consortia and the British Council to promote language learning and increase the number of young people choosing to study modern foreign languages.

Pupils competed against the clock to win the title of Spelling Bee Champion 2019 and a glass trophy in one of four categories. Competitors were supported by teachers, parents, and the student language ambassadors of Bangor University's School of Languages, Literatures & Linguistics. The finalists had already competed in three previous rounds to make it to the national final where they had 60 seconds to correctly spell as many words as they could from a possible one hundred French, German, Spanish, or Welsh words.

Four of the five north Wales schools participating, in the GwE consortium, made it to the final round. Emma James of St. Joseph's Catholic and Anglican High School came first in the German spelling final. Other finalists from north Wales include Joseph Greenall (St. Joseph's, German), Alexandra Owen-Hatfield (Alun School, German), Grace Powell (Ysgol Eirias, German), Amelie Surridge (Ysgol Eirias, French), Safiya Wandji (St. Joseph's, French), and Chloe Jackson (Ysgol Rhiwabon, French).

Rachel Large, Head of Modern Foreign Languages at St. Joseph's Catholic and Anglican High School praised the spelling bee and Routes into Languages Cymru, saying:

"For our pupils who have taken part each year, the spelling bee has given them the confidence to just give languages "a go" and they have seen the importance of languages in the wider world".

Beverley Gordon, Head of Languages at Ysgol Eirias, said:

"Despite being nervous, our pupils thoroughly enjoyed their Spelling Bee experience & their day at Bangor University. They all felt that learning the vocabulary for the competition had improved their language skills and competing on the day had given them confidence. We are extremely proud of our four pupils for all their hard work and delighted that Eirias pupils were placed third in both the French & German Spelling Bees - a great way to help us inspire the next generation of linguists!"

Simon Clark, Head of French at Ysgol Alun, said: "I'm head of French at the Alun School and it's the first time we have completed in the event. Alexandra had an amazing time and we are very proud of her. She exceeded her own expectations and has improved not only her spelling but her confidence as well. We would love to compete again next year!"

Dr Jonathan Ervine, Senior Lecturer of French at the University's School of Languages, Literatures & Linguistics, and one of the judges for the French category, said:

"It was fantastic to host the Routes Cymru Spelling Bee here in Bangor, and to see the enthusiasm and skills of the pupils who were competing. The standards that they reached were truly astounding and I know that they left many people, including our local MP, highly impressed."

Sylvie Gartau, GwE Global Futures Coordinator, and Stephanie Ellis-Williams, GwE Global Futures Language Lead said:

"It was a very successful day! It was a great opportunity for Year 7 pupils from all over Wales to show their enthusiasm towards language learning. They are all great ambassadors! Thank you to Routes Cymru and Bangor University for organising the final in north Wales for the first time. Thank you to all pupils who took part and to teachers for their support!"

Representatives from Goethe-institut, the Spanish Embassy Education Office, Institut Francais, GwE Global Futures, Europe Direct Wrexham, Anglesey Sea Zoo, Bangor University and Cardiff University took part in the event by delivering talks to the students, organising information stands or judging the rounds of the competition for each language category. The event was organised by the project coordinators in the north, Ruben Chapela-Orri, and the south, Meleri Jenkins.

Special guests in attendance of the final included Councillor John Wyn Williams (Mayor of the City of Bangor) and Hywel Williams (MP for Arfon), the latter of whom found that "It was a great event. The young people were truly inspiring (and humbling to a mere bilingual!)"

Walter Brooks of the British Council Wales, commented:

"British Council Wales is grateful for the opportunity to tell young pupils in Wales that languages and internationalism are fundamental for building bridges and trust among the nations of the world. The Language Feast was a real treat for all involved. We are already looking forward to participating next year!"
463
Tenders are invited for framework contract for evaluation services

City eberswalde 07.08.19published: 11.07.19

Award procedure: services

Offer period: 13.08.2019

Major organization : Goethe-institut EV - ZENTRALE

Address : 80637 Mnchen Bayern.
464
Tenders are invited for renovation sdring 22 to the administrative location in 04924 bad liebenwerda, lot 1: object planning

Goethe-institut e.V. - zentrale 13.08.19published: 11.07.19

Award procedure: services

Offer period: 09.08.2019.
465
Watch out for a different form of theatre with a dystopian influence, named The Blue Blue Sea - Confessions Of A Recovering Alcoholic, written by Nis-Momme Stockmann and directed by Satchit Puranik, on July 12 at 7 pm. The play is hosted at Atta Galata and it is a small part of German Spotlight, which is a series of dramatised readings of plays by contemporary German playwrights. This is the fourth and final reading in this year's dramatised reading of play series. Goethe-institut of Bangalore, in collaboration with the organisation, Sandbox Collective, invited thespians to explore the large database of German language plays. The narrative of the play revolves around a dystopian estate in present day Germany, where social housing architecture that conveniences suicide, drinking buddies that barely listen, neighbourhood kids that make cruel songs. Darko's alcoholic mind takes one through the underbelly of where the misfits belong - and 'long' to belong. Characters of the play are Motte -the teenager prostitute, Elle - his excuse for human company, Ulrike - Elle's younger sister who has a crush on Darko - all of them live and survive in the same Estate. The hope of a clear, dark night with glowing stars and the much promised ideal of 'the blue, blue sea' keeps them fighting against the relentless drudgery of the impoverished human condition.
466
AglanJazz is surely an event that is the most delightfully-named of festivals! And it's one of the best summer festivals around, encapsulating all that's good about the season: balmy Mediterranean evenings, cool outdoor living, and that perfect chilled-out vibe which heralds holiday time.

Taking place at the very start of next month, on July 2 and 3, this is one event you'll not want to miss. Held annually since 2006, the festival aims to provide a venue for outstanding jazz musicians, unite various jazz and music lovers, and embrace and celebrate diversity by hosting musicians from Cyprus, Europe and other countries. In the words of the organisers, it's "a highly anticipated summertime festival, which brings jazz to the people, and encourages those of all ages and various backgrounds to enjoy live performances from talented musicians from around the world, free of charge."

Yes, you read that right! Free of charge. Unlike the majority of summer happenings, this one will cost you nothing more than the price of your petrol and perhaps a drink or two during the evening. It's a wonderful scheme, but do be warned, coupled with the calibre of artists on stage this lack of an entrance free does make for a pretty crowded event.

Each year sees roughly 4,500 attendees jostling for a listen in Aglangia's Iroon Square, and though seating is available it's snapped up on a first-come, first-served basis. Which leaves standing room only for anyone hoping to see (and hear) the line-up of internationally renowned jazz musicians, and you'll need a good plan of action if you don't want to end up bobbing around at the back trying to see (and hear) the excitements&#8230;

On Tuesday, we've got three acts: one local, two from abroad. Starting the night at 8.30pm are local boys the Odysseas Toumazou Trio, consisting of guitarist Odysseas Toumazou, drummer George Koulas and bassist Andreas Rodosthenous. A newly-formed project dedicated to performing original compositions, you're promised improvisational jazz with elements of traditional Greek and Cypriot music in the mix. At 9.45pm, courtesy of the Austrian Embassy Nicosia, we have "the strong instrumental skills and the highly complex songs" of Austrian band Edi Nulz: Siegmar Brecher on the bass clarinet, Julian Pajzs playing the tenor and baritone guitar, and Valentin Schuster with his drums and pocket piano. And finally, thanks to the Goethe-institut Zypern, there's German duo Sendecki-Spiegel: two internationally-renowned musicians bringing us "an unusual piano/percussion constellation"!

Wednesday sees four acts, beginning with the Nicolas Tryphonas Quintet at 8.30pm: original compositions which encapsulate "the spirit of the Orient and the Balkans." At 9.25pm, the Italian Embassy of Nicosia brings us "violin wizard" Luca Ciarla, owning the stage with an imaginative mix of instruments thanks to his loop pedal. And at 10.20pm there's the Mihalis Kalkanis Group from Greece, a band of "creative musicians of the new generation."

Closing the Festival at 11.15pm we have Macumba: a collaboration between three local boys (Rodos Panagiotou, Giorgos Morfitis, and Elias Ioannou) and Chilean bassist Rodrigo CEiceres. And their "love of Afro-Cuban and Brazilian sounds, and unique approach to Latin rhythms" has given us another jolly good idea for a musical municipal submission: the blindingly obvious Lat-in-sia, at which everyone in the capital's southern suburbs can samba the night away. Come on Cyprus, let's start capitalising on the witty wording (and, of course, musical excellence) of AglanJazz!
467
Josef Wirsching, a German cinematographer, became a pioneer of the craft in India and contributed extensively to Indian cinema from 1925 when he worked with filmmaker Franz Osten in an Indo-European collaboration titled "The Light of Asia." From then on, he went on to work in close to 20 films with Bombay Talkies and subsequently on films such as "Mahal," "Dil Apna Aur Preet Parayi," and the masterpiece "Pakeezah" in 1972. The Goethe-institut Chennai will pay tribute to this forgotten pioneer of cinema in India, in an exhibition titled "A Cinematic Imagination: Josef Wirsching and the Bombay Talkies." The exhibition will showcase original photographs and digital reprints from the Wirsching archive, of early Indian cinema relating to the Bombay Talkies.The photographs, shot primarily on 35mm with a Leica camera between the 1920s and 60s, include behind-the-scenes photographs of cast and crew, production stills, and publicity images. They also throw light on the aesthetic decisions, creative communities and cross-cultural exchanges that were central to filmmaking in late colonial India. The show will bring to the fore the role of German technicians and interwar image-making practices.
468
For the second time, Volkswagen is supporting the Weimar Cultural Symposium of the Goethe-institut, which will be attended by more than 300 participants from all over the world. Intellectuals, artists, scientists and decision-makers will be debating major upheavals of our time in many areas of society. Volkswagen is actively contributing to this debate and so emphasizing how the company invests in creating a livable future. Prominent thinkers from 70 countries will gather in Weimar to reflect on pressing questions of our day and age together with the audience under the guiding theme Recalculating the Route.

Hiltrud D. Werner, member of the Volkswagen Group Board of Management responsible for Integrity and Legal Affairs, will join international participants in the panel discussion Gender & Tech New ideas for a more diverse future and describe successful measures for the advancement of women within the company (Thursday, June 20, 9:30 to 10:30 am). Every year, we examine the ratios of female graduates from technical courses of study that are important for us. We use those figures as guide for our recruitment. Under this system based on the annual numbers of female graduates, around 10 percent of the mechanical engineering graduates we hire are now women. That figure is 25 percent in engineering sciences and 50 percent in economic sciences, says Hiltrud D. Werner. We at Volkswagen believe it to be a vital task to support women in their professional advancement and keep on increasing the share of women in management. Apart from measures to improve employees work-life balance, internal mentoring programs at the Group, training, process changes and cross-hierarchy activities help achieve that. We aim to increase the ratio of women at the Group in all areas and are creating the foundations for that at an early stage.

Deutschlandfunk Kultur, the symposiums media partner, will discuss with Volkswagens futurologist Wolfgang Mller-Pietralla his position and analyses on the subject of Tech euphoria vs. anxiety about the future: What factors determine whether we see things as opportunities or risks? in a live broadcast on Thursday, June 20, 12 am to 1 pm. Volkswagen has been a founding member of the Goethe-instituts Economic Advisory Committee, which accompanies and supports the institutes activities internationally, since 2008. Hiltrud D. Werner is Volkswagens new representative on this comittee.
469
Co-organised by the Creative Economy Agency (CEA) and the Goethe-institut Thailand, the exhibition is curated by Philip Cornwel-Smith, Prof Martin Rendel and Phiboon Amornjiraporn. "Germany plays an important role in the European Union's economy and on the global scale with its management and development of infrastructure that improves quality of life.

It offers various products that combine creative design with an interesting identity, as well as global product brands that are internationally accepted. This clearly reflects the overall economy of Germany which is continuously growing," says Apisit Laistrooglai, the managing director of CEA.

Among the products is a round red fake nose as big as a plum tomato. It is a symbol that's used to bring happiness to German people during the annual Carnival.

It represents an exclamation mark and implies that everything that is said and done is meant to be funny. It reflects a country serious about its sense of humour and contradicts the view many countries have of serious Germans.

!-- yenko in read content -- !-- end yenko in read content -- Birkenstock sandal is a legendary brand hailing from the hinterlands of North Rhine-Westphalia and stands for footwear that combines supreme comfort and a healthy gait. The brand has gained popularity worldwide for more than 245 years due to its selection of quality materials in the manufacturing process, such as durable authentic leather with a soft and comfortable texture, and an adjustable sole which helps to relieve leg and back pain.

The bus ticket tube is an effective innovation with which Thais become familiar at a very young age. It's shaken as a signal to passengers to prepare their fares.

The tube is multifunctional, as it can fit all kinds of tickets and coins. Its lid can also be used to cut or tear tickets for passengers in order to mark where the passengers get on and off.

Car bumper stickers are also considered low-cost, lucky charms. These stickers bearing the messages like "this is a red car" or "this is a white car" are contradictory to their real colours yet reflects the Thai belief in lucky colours.

Besides making people feel safe and lucky, the stickers can save costs because owners do not need to have their car repainted with new auspicious colours according to their horoscope. The exhibition also features short movies telling stories about cultural exchange produced by students from King Mongkut's Institute of Technology Ladkrabang, Thailand and from Rheinische Fachhochschule Koln, Germany.
470
 The Syrian and Turkish youth are getting to know each other better in host regions in Turkey thanks to joint school and recreational activities.

Since 2011, Turkey has taken in more refugees than any other country. Almost 3.6 million Syrians have fled across the border since the conflict began, posing a challenge for Turkey and for those who are displaced. Almost one million of the refugees are children and young people of school age, leading to overcrowded classrooms and overwhelmed teachers.

The Deutsche Gesellschaft fr Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) GmbH is working in Turkey to improve educational opportunities for Syrian and Turkish children and young people in host regions. On behalf of BMZ, GIZ is coordinating joint projects with the Turkish Ministry of National Education.

For better education, it is necessary to have the right facilities. Since 2016, 57 schools have been modernised or expanded. Having enough space and the necessary school furniture ensures that Syrian and Turkish children can take part in regular lessons. In addition, more than 1,000 teachers have attended seminars to help them to handle cultural diversity in the classroom appropriately. Additional language classes and special tuition are helping Syrian children to learn Turkish and make up for lost years of education. In total, almost 75,000 students are benefiting from better education provision, half of them girls.

Young people are getting to know each other better outside of the classroom, too. Shared recreational activities, such as photography workshops and football, are helping them to bond with one another. GIZ is providing cultural and sports activities in partnership with Turkish municipalities and NGOs, the German Olympic Sports Confederation (DOSB) and the Goethe-institut. The project is drawing on considerable support from volunteers: social workers are mobilising and training Turkish and Syrian young people as volunteer cultural intermediaries, who in turn are initiating additional social activities on their own. More than 160,000 children and young people have benefited from the activities on offer. In spring 2019, a dialogue project was run for the first time, in which Syrian and Turkish young adults discussed how they envisage their lives together as a community.

Rawan is an intermediary and has become a dialogue champion. She fled the Syrian city of Idlib as a teenager and went to Kilis in Turkey, where she spent four years living in a refugee camp. Now 21, Rawan wants to get involved to boost the self-confidence of other young refugees. I want to encourage them to form new networks based on common interests, she says; and to build the kind of future they would like to be a part of.
471
Local artist, Isabel Katjavivi opened up her exhibition 'unearthing' at the Goethe-institut Johannesburg gallery last week.

The exhibition which explores sites of trauma during the colonial era and creates a response to commemorate the ancestors, will run until February 2020.

Katjavivi uses the earth, exploring the soil as an entity that retains memory and stands witness and uses the invocation by James Baldwin, that 'All your buried corpses now begin to speak' as a call for a reckoning with histories left in the land.

Unearthing is an extension to Katjavivi's 2018 exhibition, 'They tried to bury us' at the National Art Gallery, which created a scene of remembrance to those killed in the Ovaherero and Nama Genocides in Namibia.

Unearthing include voices of the descendants and connects to the loss of land and the current realities caused by the unresolved resonances of the genocides. The exhibition is the second exhibition in the series Izwe Plant Praxis, curated by MadeYouLook is being accompanied by a discursive programme.
472
As part of the popular film screening and discussion series titled 'Through Her Eyes,' Goethe-institut Bangladesh, in cooperation with the International Film Initiative of Bangladesh (IFIB), organised the screening of three films of Tasmiah Afrin Mou on the evening of June 16 at Goethe-institut Bangladesh auditorium in the capital's Dhanmondi area.

The highlight of the event was the screening of the award-winning Bangladeshi short film Kobi Swamir Mrityur Por Amar Jobanbondi (The Statement After My Poet Husband's Death), written and directed by Tasmiah Afrin Mou. One 11-minutes-length short films Nayikar Ek Raat (Heroine's One Night) (2019) and 22-minutes-length documentary film Tokai (2012) by the same director were screened to the audience.
473
Co-organised by the Creative Economy Agency (CEA) and the Goethe-institut Thailand, the exhibition is curated by Philip Cornwel-Smith, Prof Martin Rendel and Phiboon Amornjiraporn. "Germany plays an important role in the European Union's economy and on the global scale with its management and development of infrastructure that improves quality of life.

It offers various products that combine creative design with an interesting identity, as well as global product brands that are internationally accepted. This clearly reflects the overall economy of Germany which is continuously growing," says Apisit Laistrooglai, the managing director of CEA.

Among the products is a round red fake nose as big as a plum tomato. It is a symbol that's used to bring happiness to German people during the annual Carnival.

It represents an exclamation mark and implies that everything that is said and done is meant to be funny. It reflects a country serious about its sense of humour and contradicts the view many countries have of serious Germans.

!-- yenko in read content -- !-- end yenko in read content -- Birkenstock sandal is a legendary brand hailing from the hinterlands of North Rhine-Westphalia and stands for footwear that combines supreme comfort and a healthy gait. The brand has gained popularity worldwide for more than 245 years due to its selection of quality materials in the manufacturing process, such as durable authentic leather with a soft and comfortable texture, and an adjustable sole which helps to relieve leg and back pain.

The bus ticket tube is an effective innovation with which Thais become familiar at a very young age. It's shaken as a signal to passengers to prepare their fares.

The tube is multifunctional, as it can fit all kinds of tickets and coins. Its lid can also be used to cut or tear tickets for passengers in order to mark where the passengers get on and off.

Car bumper stickers are also considered low-cost, lucky charms. These stickers bearing the messages like "this is a red car" or "this is a white car" are contradictory to their real colours yet reflects the Thai belief in lucky colours.

Besides making people feel safe and lucky, the stickers can save costs because owners do not need to have their car repainted with new auspicious colours according to their horoscope. The exhibition also features short movies telling stories about cultural exchange produced by students from King Mongkut's Institute of Technology Ladkrabang, Thailand and from Rheinische Fachhochschule Koln, Germany.
474
Outgoing German Ambassador to Namibia Christian-Matthias Schlaga (CS) was this week's guest on NBC show One-on-One to chronicle his work in the country and the general relations between the two nations. He spoke to NBC's Yarukeekuro Ndorokaze.

Yarukeekuro Ndorokaze (YN): Since Namibia's independence from 1990 up to present day, Namibia and Germany have enjoyed that special relationship, what is the basis of the relationship?

Christian Schlaga: Well it was determined already by a resolution of the German Federal Parliament surely before Namibia independence - where it was stipulated that the German government is supposed to develop a very specific and a specifically strong partnership with the newly born Namibia, to which the German government has contributed quite a bit before independence to make sure that Namibia does become independent.

Therefore, we celebrated Namibia's independence incidentally together with Germany unification, it is the same year - so we can look back to almost thirty years of various specific development in Germany, in Namibia as well as between the two countries.

And the Bundestag resolution has also caused strong attention to the fact that Namibia does have a very strong German-speaking population which of course from the perspective of the German ambassador is a very important element and therefore have used all the various avenues to develop our relations being in culture, being in development cooperation, being in business or in politics.

YN: One was supposed to look at evidences to these specific special relations you are referring to - where can that be seen so many years down the line?

CS: I think there are mainly two areas, one is indeed the fact that we have such a large German-speaking population, therefore we have very broad country relations with Namibia anchored with the German-speaking population but going far beyond.

During my ten years, one of the highlights was definitely the opening of the Goethe-institut, which was called Goethe Centre and two years ago was turned into Goethe-institut led by a professional sent from Germany to lead this institute.

This institute goes way beyond just only the German-speaking community, it covers many... others actors and aspects and fields of cultural cooperation.

And together with the Goethe-institut we have worked together over the past years and for example we have interviews for the first-time something that we call the Day of the German Language, we have celebrated it twice -raising awareness about German being a foreign language as well as a mother tongue because we have experienced over the years a great and growing interest among Namibian youth to learn German.

This is irrespective of previous rations which the youngsters might have to the German language or not but we have discovered that German does actually offer additional opportunities in business for their own future.

YN: Now, cultural exchanges entail that it comes from the German side as well as Namibian side - have we seen Namibian cultures and languages also infiltrating within Germany?

CS: Culture definitely yes, there have been numerous cultural groups going to Germany via official arrangements or even on a private basis ... different cultural group mainly singing, choirs have gone to Germany and perform there with a lot of success. Only during my tenure, I don't know the number but we have seen many ... groups going to Germany and they are being taken care of by German organisers, organising wonderful tours through most of the country.

YN: And attempts to have Namibian languages also there?

CS: For Namibian languages it will rather be Namibian Embassy in Berlin or Namibian cultural organisations to take this into Germany, just like the Goethe-institut here.

YN: The Namibian-German Special Initiative (NGSIP) was also carried out, what are the successes and achievements around that?

CS: German-Namibia special Initiative is of course a very specific programme which has implemented a great number of development cooperation projects, projects to increase the life standard in specific areas.

It was one of the projects initiated by the then German Minister of Economic Cooperation in 2006, it was signed in 2006 - it was a slow process to get moving but we managed in fact over the years to come to implement more than 200 smaller individual projects in various areas of the country, mainly in those areas which are still inhabited by the descendants of the previously mainly affected communities from the colonial days.

We closed this programme one-and-a-half years ago after having spent EU$36 million - much more than we envisaged; we planned for EU$20 million over the years; additional needs were identified, additional projects came into the scheme. Now we are done and we have closed the project.

YN: Do you do follow-up assessments to see whether the projects you initiated are still ongoing and how the projects have uplifted the living conditions of those who benefited?

CS: It is a mixed picture as always in life... because of the great verity of the various projects. Not every single project has lived up to the expectations which we originally had.

But most of them have, we have had a huge evaluation process which is about to be closed but what I can say now is that most of the projects can be considered as success in the sense that there are new activities which have not been there before in respective villages, communities using the opportunities that have been put there within the framework of this project.

Nonetheless, we feel some others should have been watched maybe a little bit more carefully but this is the general result of such a huge project.

YN: And that's my following point, where there has not been success, how are you going to follow up to ensure that is enhanced?

CS: Well this is going to be difficult because the programme has a set amount of money and that has been spent, so it was considered by both governments that this project is done, finish.

So if there is some project that has not lived up to the expectations of everybody then we have to see whether in future, yes, whether we can pick this up again and that depends on the individual community as well as the Namibian government, whether there is something which they will like to bring again in the agenda of our bilateral cooperation or not.

YN: Alright ... during your time here, what are those specific economic areas where assistance has been targeted or channelled to?

CS: Within the development cooperation we had a wide angle of activities. There are two major ones - the management of natural resources in a wider sense and we focus in particular on the infrastructure development of national parks.

This is for a very simple reason because we see a huge potential for various purposes; huge potential if we make these parks more living, more accommodating; a huge potential for creating jobs - as well as for income generation because a well maintained park with good wildlife is a huge attraction for tourists.

When we talk about tourists, almost 130 000 Germany tourists alone come to Namibia every year and they mainly look for the incredible wildlife of this country.

So if we can contribute and help the Namibian government to maintain these natural resources and manage them on a long-term basis then this is a very contribution to the economic development, social development on the ground because this takes place in places where hardly anybody else really invested because it is very... remote, so that is one thing which we attached a great importance to and together with the Namibian government we have spent a lot of money.

YN: Have I ever seen your involvement in the energy sector?

CS: Yes to a lesser extent it is now, during the early years we were quite active in the energy sector actually - for example Ruacana water power project, electrification plant; only recently we inaugurated the new generators which have been put into the existing scheme with the help of German Development Cooperation KFW money.

If you go to the Zambezi, you will see a huge powerline running parallel to the street which was also financed some years back through German Development Cooperation.

YN: Why has assistance there reduced given that the region is facing power shortages

CS: Well of course we cannot maintain every single sector at the same level over decades. So, in line with the new priority set by the Namibian government we have also shifted our main points within the scope of our bilateral cooperation.

So, today we have natural resources management which is a very big one, it entails the parks much more.

We have infrastructure still, we still finance roads - I have assisted in the inauguration of a number of roads in this country, fitter roads; smaller roads but also larger roads like the dual carriage road between Windhoek and Okahandja is financed among others also by Germany.

In the south we are talking about another main road leading to the South African border - so infrastructure is still on the agenda to a larger extent.

YN: Earlier on we spoke about the good relationship and the assistance that has been coming forth to Namibia but as far as travelling is concerned, one hears reports of Namibians travelling to Germany and when they get to Frankfurt the treatment that they get there is something that does not leave them very impressed, why is that the case?

CS: Well first of all I will dare to question the statement because I know about the complaints and am following up on the complaints - I mean you might know I also travel to Frankfurt frequently and I always try to observe without the German police observing me how they do their work - and I could not find any confirmation for the complaints that specific people [blacks] are treated in a different way. I could not find any event where this was the case.

The German police control blacks, whites, whoever comes from the planes and I observed this many a time deliberately, without them knowing who I am, I just wanted to see whether this is correct.

YN: Have you heard reports of Namibians overstaying in Germany?

CS: No.
474
 The Pune Film Foundation, which organises the Pune International Film Festival (PIFF), has teamed up with Alliance Francaise and Goethe-institut to bring a collection of short films from two major French and German film festivals for the cinephiles in the city.The short films - all 82 of them - will be screened at a festival called International Shorts Collective at the Kothrud campus of the National Film Archives of India on June 15 and 16."We generally follow a January-to-January calendar, with only the film festival happening, and nothing in between. So, we thought that we will organise a festival dedicated to short films from all over the world. Thus, Goethe-institut and Alliance Francaise teamed up with us and brought the films from their top film festivals," said Jabbar Patel, film director and chairman of the Pune Film Foundation.The French films are being sourced from the ongoing Tres Court International Film Festival, one of the world's foremost short film festivals. "The audience in Pune will be able to vote for their favourite film in the international section. The audience will be handed the ballot papers on Sunday, and the organisers in France will count the Pune votes," said Ketaki Rajwade, cultural coordinator at Alliance Francaise de Pune.The German films -- 20 of them -- have been lent by the Berlin International Film Festival, famously known as the Berlinale, from its 2018 edition. And all of them are from a specially curated edition called Spotlight, which has become an attraction in itself at the Berlinale.
475
CINEPHILES' DELIGHTThe Pune Film Foundation, which organises the Pune International Film Festival (PIFF), has teamed up with Alliance Francaise and Goethe-institut to bring a collection of short films from two major French and German film festivals for the cinephiles in the city.The short filmsall 82 of themwill be screened at a festival called International Shorts Collective at the Kothrud campus of the National Film Archives of India on June 15 and 16.oWe generally follow a January-to-January calendar, with only the film festival happening, and nothing in between. So, we thought that we will organise a festival dedicated to short films from all over the world. Thus, Goethe-institutand Alliance Francaise teamed up with us and brought the films from their top film festivals,o said Jabbar Patel, film director and chairman of the Pune Film Foundation.The French films are being sourced from the ongoing Tres Court International Film Festival, one of the world's foremost short film festivals. oThe audience in Pune will be able to vote for their favourite film in the international section. The audience will be handed the ballot papers on Sunday, and the organisers in France will count the Pune votes,o said Ketaki Rajwade, cultural coordinator at Alliance Francaise de Pune.The German films -- 20 of them -- have been lent by the Berlin International Film Festival, famously known as the Berlinale, from its 2018 edition. And all of them are from a specially curated edition called Spotlight, which has become an attraction in itself at the Berlinale.
476
The Goethe-institut Cyprus announces the addition of a second Cypriot school, the International School of Paphos (ISOP), to the German Pasch network, thus strengthening its presence in Paphos.

To celebrate this, a reception will take place on Tuesday, June 11 at 6pm at the Old Powerhouse in Paphos, in the presence of the deputy mayor of Paphos, the ambassador of Germany to Cyprus and the directors of ISOP and the Goethe-institut.

Saxophonist Christos Zenios and percussionist Marios Nicolaou will add a musical note to the programme, while pupils from ISOP will perform a presentation.

The initiative 'Schools: partners for the future' (Pasch) strengthens and connects a global network of more than 1,800 partner schools that have a special connection to Germany. Schools that place a high value on German can benefit from the initiative by having their teachers and students, as well as the schools themselves, carry out exchanges and collaborate with each other. In addition to the Pancyprian gymnasium in Nicosia -- which has been a Pasch school since 2012 -- ISOP is now being added to the network.

The presence of the Goethe-institut in Paphos -- which has grown stronger in recent years, through various cultural activities and the offer of German language courses -- is now further reinforced through the inclusion of the ISOP in the global network.

German has been an integral part of ISOP's mainstream secondary school programme since its foundation in 1987. Its teachers regularly attend professional development seminars offered by the Goethe-institut and its graduates frequently go on to study at universities in German-speaking countries, as well as the UK, USA and many other places. Joining the Pasch network will give ISOP's staff and students even more opportunities to enhance their teaching and learning.

The International school's recently completed boarding house and its planned 300-seat theatre will allow for even more synergies between ISOP and the Goethe-institut, as well as artists from Germany and all around the world.

Date and Time: June 11, 6pm.

Venue: Old Powerhouse, 8 Vladimiros Heracleous str., Paphos

Language: English

Free Admission -- only by invitation

Information: 22-674606, natalie.stylianou@goethe.de, www.goethe.de/cyprus

The post International School of Paphos strengthens German links appeared first on Cyprus Mail .
477
Home is no longer a monolith. It is in a state of flux. Capsized refugee boats scrambling towards Europe are a testament to that. In a world where more and more people are being stripped of their moorings, either forcibly or voluntarily, the question arises: what is home?

This conundrum lies at the very heart of an on-going exhibition titled 'Arrival City'. Brought to Karachi in collaboration with the Goethe-institut Pakistan, the German exhibit seeks to contextualise and understand not only the issues plaguing refugees but also how best to assimilate these individuals into an already fragmented society. Initially displayed at the Architecture Biennale in Venice, its Karachi chapter broadens the scope of its narrative by taking a look at the dilemma of the Afghan refugees in Pakistan.

Housed in Yousuf Bashir Qureshi's warehouse turned Artist Colony, the exhibit which opened on Saturday, is curated by architect and vociferous advocate for the preservation of heritage sights, Marvi Mazhar. Mazhar is no stranger to navigating the complexities of the rabid urban landscape and the problems that come along with it. She noted that the exhibition 'questions the idea of home, home as a place of familiarity, security and as a form of identity we carry within us. This exhibit tries to cast a light on the struggles the refugees face on a day to day basis, many of whom are constantly struggling to find a place where they can truly belong and be accepted.'

Visitors viewing the work on display at the exhibit.

The most arresting segment of the display was the intensive research work carried out on Afghan refugees by Zehra Nawab, Danial Shah and Salman Alam, which manifests itself in the shape of short documentaries, explanatory text and images. It provides a glimpse into the manner in which the daily lives of Afghan refugees unfold while also grounding their struggles in a geopolitical context. Nawab stated that, 'Often we limit communities to just being facts and figures in news reports. The idea behind this project was to discover the humans that make up these numbers. Who is the Afghan refugee? Where does she go to school? What does his home look like?'

The audience looks on during a presentation at the Arrival City exhibit.

Additionally, the work done by Hafsa Ghani and Fariha Kidwai looked at the refugee dilemma by trying to understand why their situation continues to be so dire. Their documentary, which was screened at the symposium which followed the exhibition, argued that the problems faced by refugees persist because many such individuals have little to no access to formal education since they lack the necessary paperwork. Similarly, Sameer Nizamuddin further explored why the situation of these refugees has not improved by studying and documenting second-generation Afghan migrants and what home means for them.

By revealing the stories of this community labelled 'refugee' for four generations, a narrative emerges which is both tragic and beautiful, relatable and alien. The stories at the exhibit speak of love, of heart aches, of fears, of economics, of war, of peace, of home - of the home lost and the one gained.
478
Contract notice: Personnel needs assessment for the headquarters of the Goethe-institut

with this tender, The Goethe-institut intends to award a contract for the implementation of a personnel needs assessment with the aim of collecting the necessary personnel requirements for its headquarters. The aim of the personnel requirement determination is to ensure the quality of the achievement of goals and the future viability of the organization.

This contract is divided into lots: No

time limit for receipt of tenders or requests to participate: Date: 09/07/2019local time: 12:00

conditions for opening tenders date: 09/07/2019local time: 13:00

other activity: Sprache und kultur

Major organization : Goethe-institut E. V.
479
Tenders are invited for creation and operation of a complete system for the electronic personnel file including document management and workflow system for use in the personnel work of the Goethe-institut

Landesstraenbaubehrde sachsen-anhalt 27.06.19published: 07.06.19

Award procedure: services

Offer period: 09.07.2019

Major organization : Goethe-institut EV - ZENTRALE

Address : 80333 Mnchen Bayern.
480
Tenders are invited for a6 as homburg, new passenger parking lot and replacement building

Goethe-institut e.V. - zentrale 09.07.19published: 07.06.19

Award procedure: construction services

Offer period: 26.06.2019

Major organization : LANDESBETRIEB FR STRAENBAU.
481
Tenders are invited for creation and maintenance of an online platform as part of the interreg project creative ports - Goethe-institut finland

Goethe-institut finland 26.06.19published: 05.06.19

Award procedure: services

Offer period: 26.06.2019
482
Colombo Theatre Forum is a space created for those who are seeking new dimensions in Sri Lankan theatre. Scholars, directors, script writers, actors and actresses, critics, lighting directors, back stage creators, stage managers, students and spectators can join this forum to widen their horizons in the field of theatre.

Colombo Theatre Forum organized by Inter Act Art theatre and Goethe - Institut Sri Lanka was re-commenced 2017 with the participation of many young theatre lovers and foreign delegates. The forum will be held today at the Goethe-institut Hall at 5 pm. Titled 'Die Abteilung Schauspiel' (Department for Acting) the session will hold a discussion of the documentary film. The curator of the event is M. Safeer. 'Die Abteilung Schauspiel' gives a rough introduction to the study of acting at the 'Hochschule fur Schauspielkunst Ernst Busch Berlin'.
483
The Goethe-institut / Max Mueller Bhavan Chennai, is launching the third edition of its South Asian Music Residency, (SAMUR), with a batch of 12 professional musicians, composers, improvisers and performers from Germany and the South Asian region. The artists will be selected and invited this summer for a unique two-week musical collaboration in Chennai.SAMUR, which started in 2016, encourages its participants to share ideas, perform each other's works, and write music for one another, while also exploring and broadening their own vision. This is why, an important prerequisite is the participation of professional musicians with an ability to play and develop music with others.SAMUR also explores possibilities for cross-cultural exchange on practice and theory of contemporary music composition in different countries, relation between traditional and contemporary music and challenges of various genres and styles. It looks into capacity-building, interaction of emerging and experienced musicians and composers in South-Asia, presentation of new compositions and ideas for collaborative projects and strengthening the networking of festivals, institutions and freelancers in the region with Germany. A special feature will be public performances during the course of the residency.The directors of SAMUR 2019 will be German composer and Saxophone player Roger Hanschel and Indo-German composer, Drummer and Percussionist Ramesh Shotham. The residency will will take place from August 18 to September 1 in Chennai, in collaboration with A R Rahman's K M Music Conservatory. It is now open for applications from Germany, India, Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Iran, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka. The last date is May 30.
484
Anyone who has attended a book reading will be familiar with the usual structure: a presentation, a reading and a Q&A. Toni Krahl's book reading on Thursday and Sunday arrives from Germany to spice that agenda up a little.

Given his musical background as the singer of the German rock band CITY, Krahl will offer a musical reading of his new book Toni's Rock Legenden (in German). To add the event's musical element, Krahl will perform some of his songs alongside Bulgarian violinist Don Joro Gogow and German, Cyprus-based percussionist Roger Heinrich.

After a successful 45-year career in the music industry, the rock singer wrote a book chronicling his musical experiences but also his life in "three different Germanies." The book goes through his time in East Germany when was arrested because of activities during the Prague Spring, later on as a musician in East and West Germany and in the united Germany where he works as an artist and publisher.

During the musical book reading at Goethe-institut, Nicosia (Thursday) and the House of Art and Literature, Paphos (Sunday), Krahl will talk about all these experiences, sometimes pensive, sometimes amusing. Every now and again he'll grab his guitar to perform some of his best songs.

Toni Krahl's Musical Book Reading

Book reading with live music by German Rockstar Toni Krahl. May 16, Goethe-institut, Nicosia. 7.30pm. May 19, House of Literature and Arts, Paphos. 7pm. Tel: 22-623690

The post Book reading given a musical edge appeared first on Cyprus Mail .
485
Tenders are invited for open house procedure to build a coaching pool

Goethe-institut e.V. - zentrale 17.06.19published: 10.05.19

Award procedure: services

Offer period: 05.06.2019

Major organization : UNIVERSITTSKLINIKUM KLN AR.
486
Tenders are invited for representative for maintenance and glass cleaning

Construction and property management nrw mnster 05.06.19published: 09.05.19

Award procedure: services

Offer period: 07.06.2019

Major organization : Goethe-institut EV - ZENTRALE

Address : 80637 Mnchen Bayern

Country :Germany

Notice type : Tender Notice

Open date : 2019-06-07.
487
Tenders are invited for renovation of the objects during the summer holidays 2019 "tile work"

Goethe-institut e.V. - zentrale 07.06.19published: 09.05.19

Award procedure: construction services

Offer period: 23.05.2019

Major organization : STADT BRAMSCHE.
488
The Goethe-institut Namibia and National Art Gallery of Namibia (NAGN) present the Curatorship Bootcamp 2019 - the first of its kind for both institutions - that is calling on visual art graduates, students and enthusiasts to submit applications for the five-day event from 20 to 24 May.

A curator takes care of content in a library, gallery or museum. He or she is a content specialist responsible for a collection of cultural heritage and its interpretation.

In contemporary art, the fluidity of the role is reflected in the diverse dynamics and structures of institutions around the world. Following the boom of cultural institutions in the late 20th century, the influence of a curator today can be phenomenal in the development of arts and culture.

Facilitated by internationally recognised curators from Namibia, South Africa and Nigeria, among them NAGN curatorial coordinator Ndeenda Shivute, founder and director of the Lagos Biennial Folakunle Oshun, and lead curator of the first Nigerian pavilion at the 57th Venice Biennale in 2017, Anderele Sonariwo, the bootcamp has a multidisciplinary approach and combines theory with practice through learning in the NAGN.

They will explore topics such as conceptualisation, exhibition design, art conservation, events management and marketing.

The bootcamp aims to provide and align theory with practical hands-on training within gallery settings. The goal is to deepen and increase participants' knowledge of curation, develop and widen the visibility of the visual arts sector in Namibia, and contribute to the development of arts in Africa.

The Curatorship Bootcamp includes site visits, tours of exhibition spaces, handling of collection objects/items and an introduction to the art of critical text reading and writing.

"Participants will experience the alignment of theory with practice within the gallery setting," said NAGN CEO Snobia Kaputu. She explained the goal is to increase the knowledge of students, graduates and arts enthusiasts to widen the visibility and relevance of visual arts in Namibia.

"We approach this project with the optimism of potentially identifying local curators for exhibitions in 2019/2020 at the Goethe-institut Namibia and NAGN," said Goethe cultural programmes officer, Michelle Namases.

The bootcamp involves a very simple online registration via culture-windhoek@goethe.de. Applications close on 16 May. For more information, visit goethe.de/namibia.

- Goethe-institut Namibia.
489
Tenders are invited for lernfabrik 4.0 at the commercial-technical schools of the district of esslingen

Goethe-institut e.V. - zentrale 04.06.19published: 05.05.19

Award procedure: delivery services

Offer period: 05.06.2019

Major organization : LANDRATSAMT ESSLINGEN, AMT 52

Address : Landkreis Esslingen Baden-Wrttemberg

Country :Germany.
490
Night Under the Stars (NUTS) heads to Tsumeb tomorrow, in a concert featuring energetic singer TopCheri and the ever consummate DJ K-Boz.

NUTS is a free monthly concert, staged by Goethe-institut Namibia, and this will be the first time the initiative is held outside Windhoek.

Monica Pinias, or TopCheri as she is better known, hails from Walvis Bay.

"We spoke a lot of Afrikaans, so many of my tracks have Afrikaans words or phrases that are better known as a type of slang. This makes my music relatable to a lot of people," she said.

Also on stage will be the talented Imms on guitar and DJ Mdu, who is known for his magnificent skills of beating a drum with burning sticks.

Having recently released her debut album titled 'Fertile', the dedicated TopCheri describes her music as a unique experience of Afro-pop and dancehall, with a touch of Namibian flavour.

"I don't really rap. I sing about whatever my mood drives me to sing about," she said, adding that a good track must be experienced to the level of feeling, and not only hearing. "I always tell my producer to make a song that a hearing-impaired person can also feel - a good bass anytime!"

Spinning the decks and setting the pace of the evening will be DJ K-Boz, who is no stranger to NUTS or the local music industry. Known for his philosophy of mixology that gets the crowd bouncing to the beat, DJ KBoz will be followed by DJ Castro.

The show kicks off at 19h00 outside Imbizo Lounge located on Dr Hage Geingob Drive. Entrance is free. For more information, go to goethe.de/namibia

- Goethe-institut-Namibia.
491
Chairman of the Committee on Economic Cooperation and Development at the German Bundestag (Parliament), Peter Ramsauer, on Tuesday said that Germany has 6,000 engineering vacancies, some of which can be filled by Jordanians. Ramsauer's remarks came during a meeting between the Lower House's Economic and Investment Committee and a delegation representing a number of German companies, the Jordan News Agency, Petra, said. The German lawmaker added that the initiative would have its contributions towards enhancing Berlin-Amman parliamentary cooperation, commending Jordan's role in support of the regional and global causes, according to Petra. During the meeting, Lower House Speaker Atef Tarawneh stressed the need to promote Jordanian professionals and support their entrepreneurial endeavours, Petra reported. "Jordan possesses the necessary foundations for a successful investment and business environment, which resulted in signing of a number of agreements with brotherly and friendly countries," Tarawneh said. Tarawneh voiced appreciation for Germany's continuous support to the Kingdom in various sectors. Head of the Economic and Investment Committee MP Kheir Abu Saalik said that the panel has adopted an initiative, in cooperation with the Goethe-institut Jordan, the Jordan Engineers Association and the Amman Chamber of Industry, to hold more German language courses which will help qualify engineers to meet the language requirement needed for a work permit in Germany.
492
Goethe-institut/Max Mueller Bhavan and Bengaluru-based artists group the Sandbox Collective will present the fifth edition of the gender-themed art festival 'Gender Bender'. The festival, which started as a grantee showcase festival, has evolved into a recognised space for conversations around the subject with artists and audiences alike. Applications are invited from artists and individuals around the world, for works with innovative and novel ideas around the theme. An independent panel will select the projects to be supported with a trigger grant. Artists and individuals are encouraged to critically approach the theme of gender and through any form of media from dance to drawing, photography to pottery and mixed media to mime. The last date for sending the entries for the grant is May 15. The selected projects will be presented in Bengaluru between August 21 and August 24."The festival used to take place at Goethe-institut every year, but this year, we've moved to a new venue - the Bangalore International Centre - to accommodate the festival's growth in scale and variety. We've also planned a series of new performances, conversations and special programmes for young adults and children," says Shiva Pathak, co-founder Sandox Collective.
493
Earlier, young artistes of Whole 9 Yards brought their theatre to cafes. Taking a step ahead, the youngsters have now presented theatre in a gastropub, along with food and drinks. They have staged their successful play, Taramandal, at a city-based gastropub.Abhrajit Sen, the director of the play, said, "We are back after six months, with the 10th show of Taramandal. This time we have converted this into the culinary-theatre format - Food and Theatre - as they call it in Europe. This form of theatre aims to excite and entertain the diners with interactive theatre while they are enjoying food. I don't think this style has ever been followed in Kolkata before."Taramandal is a musical in two acts and ever since it was staged, the audience has appreciated it. It premiered at a Russian cafe in the Russian Centre for Science and Culture or Gorky Sadan. The musical has travelled to different venues of Kolkata like Goethe-institut/Max Muller Bhavan, The Bengal Chamber of Commerce and Industries and Alliance Francaise du Bengale. The musical has been supported by popular individuals from the film fraternity, including Arindam Sil and Sreelekha Mitra. Written by playwright Neel Chaudhury, Abhrajit has directed it. It is a musical and it is composed by Adil Rashid, Dibyokamal Mitra and Meghtithi Banerjee.
494
Climbing a set of stairs linking Jabal Luweibdeh and downtown Amman, Zeinab Alawi said she was "over the moon" to stumble upon local and foreign musicians playing Eastern and Western music side by side over the weekend.

"I like jazz music and I like the idea of music being played on a staircase, especially with the atmosphere added by the graffiti painted on these stairs," she told The Jordan Times.

Alawi was among a number of people who were passing by and stopped after encountering musicians playing jazz at Al Kalha staircase.

The staircase concert was a public event and took place on Saturday with a second concert being postponed until Wednesday due to rain. The event was held within the framework of the Amman Jazz Festival, according to a statement from organisers.

Laura Hartz, director of Goethe-institut Jordan, said Amman's jazz festival brings in bands from all over the world year after year.

"We wanted also bring the music to the streets. We thought that staircases in Amman were such an interesting venue because the architecture of staircases is already a kind theatre. It also bridges and connects neighbourhoods, which was what we wanted to do," she added.

"When you bring different musicians from different backgrounds there is always something new being created, which is the beauty of bringing them together," she said.

The staircase concert was organised by the Amman Jazz Festival and the Goethe-institut Jordan, in collaboration with the Greater Amman Municipality and the EU, according to the statement.
495
SAWA is dedicated to the exchange of ideas amongst cultures Sharjah Museums Authority (SMA) has announced that it is accepting entries for its SAWA Museum Academy, an introductory professional qualification that covers the diverse areas of working in museums and the cultural field in general.

Manal Ataya, director-general of SMA, explained that SAWA, which means together in Arabic, is a unique program that supports and develops capabilities and necessary skills. It equips students with the essential tools and international best practices in museology required in today's world.

It is directed at students of museum studies and young museum professionals from the MENA Region and Germany. The two-phase program is a joint initiative of SMA, the Staatliche Museen Berlin and the Goethe-institut Gulf Region, together with the University of Applied Sciences Berlin.

It is designed to create a multicultural learning environment for Arab and German students to jointly share learning experiences, innovative approaches and methods in cultural appropriate museology. SAWA is dedicated to the exchange of ideas on Appropriate Museum Studies across continents and cultures to encourage learning from and with each other.

Phase one of the program is from September 15 to 25. The second stage takes place in Berlin, Germany, from June 8 to 15. 
496
An evening of contemporary dance held at the National Theatre Hall of Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy (BSA) in the capital's Segunbagicha area recently.

In light of the huge response from the local dance scene and audience alike, Goethe-institut Bangladesh, in partnership with the BSA organised the event under the "Young Choreographers' Platform 2019."

In her welcoming speech, Dr Kirsten Hackenbroch, Director, Goethe-institut Bangladesh said, "A group of young creative minds is dedicated to contemporary dance in Bangladesh. As you will see tonight, the body languages they developed are both inherently Bangladeshi and trans-cultural. The themes brought to the stage speak of diversity and of the freedom to express what one today bears witness to. Whether you are here as art lovers, cultural activists, media professionals or business folk: we hope this evening will inspire you to further support contemporary dance in Bangladesh, to invite the choreographers into productions and to make accessible international stages for talents from Bangladesh."

Inaugurating the event, Liaquat Ali Lucky, Director General of BSA, highly praised the initiative to promote the contemporary dance scene in Bangladesh and heartily thanked Goethe-institut for organizing the event. Quoting the young choreographers as the 'asset of the nation,' he asserted to continue supporting the young choreographers in the days to come.

Attending audience fully enjoyed some eleven outstanding pieces of contemporary dance choreographies, developed and presented on stage by the respective young dance choreographers, accompanied by their co-dancers with ten groups and one solo performance.

With one after another mind-blowing performance on stage, it was quite evident that the young choreographers have well utilised the opportunity to transform their ideas and thoughts into choreographies through various workshops held under the dynamic guidance of Tomas Bunger, the German dancer and dance choreographer from the TanzKollektivBremen.

The eleven choreographers were Mehraj Haque Tushar, Parvin Sultana Kolly, Md. Ariful Islam Arnab, Anandita Khan, Tahnun Ahmedy, Sudeshna Swayamprabha, Md Farhad Ahmed, Bristi Bepari, Md. Eashin Arafat, Snata Shahrin and Moumita Roy Joya.

This event was the continuation of the Young Choreographers' Platform project initiated by Goethe-institut Bangladesh in 2016, in cooperation with the BSA, aiming to provide stage to the talented Bangladeshi young contemporary dance choreographers and dancers to transmit their thoughts of present-day Bangladesh through contemporary dance forms and styles.

497
A quick trip to anywhere in Germany would tell you of their love for good architecture. What was left behind post-war is preserved while new trends are compounded upon for maximum efficiency. In our world, several every day comforts are produced out of German innovation. You'll further witness this as the Metropolitan Museum of Manila presents '100 Years Deutscher Werkbund,' their latest exhibition featuring German architecture and design.

100 Years Deutscher Werkbund lifestyle inquirer

Deutscher Werkbund (DWB) is an association of artists, architects, designers, and industrialists created in 1907 by 12 German artists and architects along with 12 Munich design firms. Their mission is dedicated to 'refining craft work in the interaction of art, industry and craft, by education, by propaganda and by adopting a unified approach to all relevant questions.' The DWB credits their efforts in shaping the cultural life of other European countries.

100 Years Deutscher Werkbund metropolitan museum lifestyle inquirer

100 Years Deutscher Werkbund metropolitan museum lifestyle inquirer

With this exhibit, the DWB looks back on their achievements to celebrate the group's one hundredth anniversary. It also explores the future, refining the relevance of DWB in the global landscape.

'100 Years Deutscher Werkbund' features posters, models, furniture, design, drawings and photos arranged chronologically in seven sections, relating them directly to the political and social situations they were born out of.

100 Years Deutscher Werkbund metropolitan museum lifestyle inquirer

The exhibit is a joint project by Architekturmuseum at the TU in Munich and the Institut fuA"r Auslandsbeziehungen e.V. (ifa) presented by the Goethe-institut in Manila and supported by Metropolitan Museum of Manila and Design Week Philippines.

The exhibit will run until May 25 from Monday to Saturday, 10 am to 5:30 pm. Admission fee is PHP 100.
498
Philip Cooray called Delovak Athara the most personal film that Lester James Peries ever made, and it shows. From the milieu depicted in it to its choice of subject matter, it may well have been a "statement" in the same vein that Truffaut's The 100 Blows or Bergman's Wild Strawberries had been. Audiences hadn't seen this kind of story in a Sinhala film before. To Lester's credit, to have sustained interest for two hours within such a narrow framework was, in the very least, remarkable, though not everyone was happy: a businessman, having seen it and obviously exasperated, point-blank asked the director, "What kind of ending was that?"

Delovak Athara is the kind of film that would be called an independent experimental work today. It was financed by an ad hoc organisation (Cine Lanka) formed between the director, his wife, and a school friend; it was rather "low budget", made use of the leading players of the day, and propelled a relative unknown, cast as the protagonist, to stardom; it strayed from the narrative of every movie that preceded it (becoming, as Philip Cooray noted, "a totally cerebral film"); in terms of mood it was introspective, "the most Western" of Lester's works until then; and it was a collaborationist film that recorded a "perfect fusion between the director and the cameraman" - Lester James Peries and Willie Blake turned into Jean-Luc Godard and Raoul Coutard.

Moderated by Anoma Rajakaruna, the movie was given a special screening at the Goethe-institut last Wednesday, April 3, two days before what would have been the 100th birthday of the director. After the screening the panel that discussed the film - Sumitra Peries (who edited it), Dileepa Abeysekara, Vidarshana Kannangara - shared some interesting, provocative perspectives regarding not only the movie, but the man behind it as well. In light of Lester's birth centenary, I believe these perspectives call for a radical rereading of the director and the person behind the director. This essay is an attempt at explicating, and clarifying, some of those thoughts.

Can Lester's works be rationalised in terms of the moral universe they occupy? It's tempting to view a film like Delovak Athara and say that they do. Thematically and cinematically, there's nothing in it that can be called political, except the decision of the protagonist to own himself up to the police and save the servant his family frames for the accident. Vidarshana Kannangara believes otherwise, however: for him Lester, even in Nidhanaya, indicts "bourgeois values" to such a degree that he becomes more than just an artistic, avant-garde director; the hint is that there's more to Lester than the (Marxist) critic may be prepared to admit.

Lester James Peries was the product of contradicting forces. In The Lonely Artist Philip Cooray notes that three factors influenced him: his career as a journalist, his involvement with the '43 Group, and his work at the Government Film Unit. It is certainly alluring to analyse his films on the basis of how journalistic they are, how artistic they are, and how they approximate to a documentary; the truth, however, is that the one point which drove Lester's work more than the other three in the sixties was the fact that he was both of the time he worked in, and out of it.

What the 60s unearthed - the MPAA system and the counterculture, Vietnam and May 1968,My Fair Lady and The Graduate - was a clash of morals. It was difficult for a director, even a non-Western one like Lester or Satyajit Ray, to ignore it in their movies, though the way they encountered and tackled that conflict in their work would have differed considerably. Ray made three films which remain unsurpassed in how they bring together the personal and the political against the backdrop of the Naxalite uprising in India: Pratidwandi, Seemabaddha, Jana Aranya.

The closest to such a political statement that Lester made was Yuganthaya, and that seems more an affectation than an affirmation of radicalism; by the time of Vietnam and the 1971 insurrection, he was making, not a political indictment like Delovak Athara, but a mystical parable out of Beauty and the Beast, Desa Nisa.

Given this it comes to no surprise that Lester would be criticised by the younger filmmakers for not being committed enough. Vidarshana's point is that these young radicals, who like the Cahiers du Cinema circle began as intellectuals, writers, critics, and philosophers, in their enthusiasm to appear more political than the man they had initially revered, missed or overlooked the social content of his work.

I do not necessarily agree with his contention (after all Vidarshana himself admitted subsequently that there was a deterioration in the quality of Lester's films after the late seventies), but it nevertheless compels us to radically re-evaluate an artist who shared with interwar French filmmakers like Rene Clement the rather unfortunate distinction of being described as an archaic director, whose conception of the medium was in turn referred to as "le cinema de papa." (In 1974, when Dharmasena Pathiraja made Ahas Gawwa, they went as far as to translate this to "appochchige cinemawa").

If there's one yardstick by which we can separate the films of Lester James Peries from the polemics of these "radicals" (of whom only one, Pathiraja, matured as an established director), it is this: Lester remained, until his last, a "polymorphous" artist, in Isaiah Berlin's terminology a "fox", as opposed to his critics who viewed the world through the lens of their ideas, and became (again in Berlin's terminology) "hedgehogs." They enjoyed the luxury of an ideological space from which they could attack their mentors, but what they forgot was that the creation of such a space required, at the outset, a "radical" who could prove it could be created in the first place. That director, who was born into both 1956 and 1971, was Lester.

Delovak Athara has been described as continental, avant-garde, and even Marxist (it was reportedly a favourite of Philip Gunawardena, whose taste in the arts could hardly be called "bourgeois"), but I rather feel it was more Anglophile than European.

It has the Godardian mood, yet at the same time it lacks the Godardian spontaneity; its pace is measured, and its plot, while not wholly intellectualised, is nevertheless (as Cooray pointed out) cerebral. We don't feel to the film, we don't even react to it; we merely observe. In that sense we can't discount another influence Lester and Sumitra Peries would have imbibed: the Free Cinema Movement, some of the articulators of which the two of them had known and befriended in England.

The Free Cinema Movement was a cinema of anger; it was opposed not just to the conservatism of the older directors in England (the David Leans and the Carol Reeds), but also to the bohemian counterculture of the US.

It was fashionably Marxist, and unlike the Nouvelle Vague where many of the directors proclaimed and fought for the disassociation of the cinema from other art forms, its articulators worked with or went for litterateurs like Allan Sillitoe, John Osborne, and Joe Orton (whose controversial play on homosexuality, Entertaining Mr. Sloane, was adapted as Thoththa Baba by Premaranjith Tilakaratne). Many of the films they made were cold and distanced the audience; Cooray described Delovak Athara in nearly the same terms.

Once we forget the "continentalism" of Delovak Athara, once we stop attaching one label or the other to it, a different picture of the man who made it emerges. Lester was not averse to incorporating other art forms in his work - most of his movies contain a tripartite structure as with a play, build up to a crescendo as with a symphony, and are rooted in the scripts they are based on as with a work of literature - and he was not so dogmatic as to privilege one mode of filmmaking over the other.

Delovak Athara is certainly Lester's work, and yet it bears the stamp of his other collaborators: Sumitra's editing, Regi Siriwardena's writing,Tissa Abeysekara's dialogues, and Willie Blake's camerawork. He was, put simply, not an ideologue, which means that there is no real evidence to suggest that he was averse to radicalism.

Not that that was true of everyone else. At the time of the 1971 insurrection even a landmark pioneer writer like Martin Wickramasinghe could condemn JVP leaders for being "even prepared to kill their parents in order to achieve the aims of their clique." Such judgments, or misjudgements, are sadly inevitable; age brings with it to the artist a conservative streak that is often at odds with the progressivism of his work (after all it was around the time he made that judgment that Wickramasinghe wrote his last novel, Bhavatharanaya, which can hardly be called "reactionary").

What can we say of Lester, given these contentions? Was he a radical? Was he really committed? Did he stray from the pitfalls that visited contemporaries and luminaries like Wickramasinghe? I would certainly think so. To go further, to explore the nature of Lester's affinities with the radicalism of his time, would, however, mean delving deeper. What that means is that we must re-read him. Right now.
499
Filipinos can now experience European culture and heritage without leaving the country.

The European Union (EU) on Monday launched its annual summer cultural festival in the Philippines to bring European culture and heritage to Filipinos.

'Viva Europea 2019,' will run from April to June, featuring exhibitions, bike tours and concerts, among others.

EU Ambassador Franz Jessen said this year's edition of 'Viva Europea' is aimed at 'reinforcing mutual understanding and strengthening people-to-people links.'

'What we're trying to do is trying to move away from our usual way of working in Manila, when we're often focused on political issues, economic issues, and global issues,' Jessen said in a press conference in Makati City.

'We're trying to bring Europe closer to the hearts of the people in Manila and in the Philippines. We do that by bringing some of the things where Europe is strongest. That, of course, is European culture,' he added.

'Viva Europea' is organized by the EU Delegation to the Philippines, and the embassies of Austria, Belgium, Czech Republic, Denmark, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Italy, Netherlands, Romania, Spain, Sweden and United Kingdom.

It is also in coordination with Alliance Francaise, the British Council, the Goethe-institut, Instituto Cervantes and the Philippine-Italian Association.

Activities

This year's 'Viva Europea' will hold its first stargazing event and a session on stars and constellations for the youth in line with its theme 'EU Goes Techno.'

The cultural event will also highlight topics like children's rights, environmental protection, and music.

On May 6- 7, the EU will also hold a bike tour in Bohol in a bid to promote protecting the environment and practicing a sustainable lifestyle.

A one-day football festival, the Schuman Cup, will be held in May 4 in Ayala Alabang to help educate disadvantaged Filipino children about football and the way it is played in Europe.

European diplomats will also be competing with Filipino professional players.

The EU delegation, with Museo Pambata and embassies of Austria, Czech Republic, Germany, Netherlands, and the Philippine-Italian Association, will also hold story-telling activities for disadvantaged children, giving them the opportunity to hear European stories, games and other cultural activities.

In introducing the music of Europe to the Philippines, the EU will stage the 'Euro-Pinoy Concert,' featuring performers from the Czech Republic, Germany, Spain and the Philippines, including Czech composer Lukas Sommer, Spanish flamenco guitarist Alex Alcaraz, Filipino percussionist Jean Paul Zialcita, and half-German, half-Filipina DJ Marie Badkiss at The Ruins of Poblacion in Makati City.

A nationwide choir competition at the Far Eastern University will also be held from May 25 to 26.
500
Tenders are invited for rent of acoustic furniture

Hessen mobile fulda 24.04.19published: 04.04.19

Award procedure: services

Offer period: 26.04.2019

Major organization : Goethe-institut EV - ZENTRALE

Address : 80637 Mnchen Bayern

Country :Germany
501
Tenders are invited for collection and evaluation of fish stocks in the petersdorfer see,

Goethe-institut e.V. - zentrale 26.04.19published: 04.04.19

Award procedure: services

Offer period: 02.05.2019

Major organization : LANDESAMT FR UMWELT

Address : 14476 Potsdam Brandenburg

Country :Germany.
502
 he screening of Matir Projar Deshey/ Kingdom of Clay Subjects, directed by Bijon followed by a lively Q&A discussion session held at Goethe-institut Bangladesh auditorium in the capital's Dhanmondi area recently.

Welcoming director Bijon and the attending audience, Dr Kirsten Hackenbroch, Director, Goethe-institut Bangladesh, said, "In this year's Berlinale programmes, four film professionals from Bangladesh participated - a great achievement. What is crucial now is to share these experiences in the community, in order to encourage young independent filmmakers to start their own journeys. Each new independent film from Bangladesh will add to a more nuanced and diverse image of the country and its society."

Director Bijon quoted, "I feel, in this long journey, the moments of failure showed us the path to move forward. The disappointments of rejections are temporal but the lesson learned from those experiences stays with you every step of the way."

Back from Berlin with some fresh and exciting experiences of participating at this year's Berlinale co-production market, along with the Producer Arifur Rahman, Bijon shared his unique experiences with the local filmmakers, enthusiast after the screening of Matir Projar Deshey with the veteran film buff Dr Zakir Hossain Raju, who moderated the evening's interactive Q&A session.

Director Bijon just participated with producer Arifur Rahman at this year's Berlinale co-production market with their next feature project Paradise, the first such venture from Bangladesh to be in this eminent platform. This was indeed, a great chance for the filmmakers, enthusiast from Bangladesh to hear all the precious experience of Berlinale Co-Production Market.

Bijon is an award-winning writer, director, producer of fiction and documentary. After the international success of his written, directed feature Kingdom of Clay Subjects and produced feature Live from Dhaka, his current project Paradise has been an official selection at Berlinale's co-production market.

Synopsis of film Matir Projar Deshey:

Set in rural Bangladesh, 10-year-old Jamal is robbed of his innocence when his childhood friend and everyday playmate is forced to become a child bride. With new insight about social norms, Jamal begins to notice his surroundings and realises his need for a social identity. His search puts his mother into risk, as she has a past she is forced to hide. Faced with the dilemma of losing his mother, Jamal stands up to social oppression to find that all is not lost.
503
The Bauhaus Open House exhibitions opened last week celebrating 100 years of Bauhaus but there's plenty more related events to follow in the coming week as the Goethe-institut Cyprus teams up with a number of other local organisations to complete this series of events.

First up is a conference on Wednesday in collaboration with the Department of Architecture of the University of Nicosia to discuss and analyse Bauhaus from different perspectives with keynote speaker Dr Magdalena Droste.

The former director of the Bauhaus-Archiv Museum fE-r Gestaltung in Berlin, Droste will give an in-depth presentation about Bauhaus covering its history, the changes through its three different directors, the historical context of Bauhaus, leading up to the present day, 100 years after the Bauhaus school was founded in 1919.

Wanting to explore the more cultural aspect of Bauhaus besides its minimalist and revolutionary design, an evening of dance performances and a film screening is organised, honouring the themed costume parties and evenings of theatre and dance it often hosted. April 11 at Dancehouse Lefkosia will hold a choreography by Ariana Economou with specially-made costumes while a screening of the Triadic ballet film by Oskar Schlemmer will lead the audience into the world of Bauhaus and its famous ballet.

After the screening, three dancers will take to the stage, in their own self-designed Triadic ballet reminiscent body extensions. They'll present a new interpretation of Oskar Schlemmer's work, almost 100 years after its premiere in 1922.

More film screenings will follow on April 19, along with the closing party where DJ Rob Fleming will present some Post-Punk and Krautrock music selections influenced by the Bauhaus movement. Despite a closing party, there will be one more event to follow on April 28. Another film screening. This one will present a picture of this unique institution of artistic modernism; from the revolutionary outburst following the First World War to disbandment, emigration and professional advancement. It is former Bauhaus students who tell most of the story, their teachers having the chance to speak via archive material.

"This critical account of the artistic and political objectives of the Bauhaus is perhaps the most comprehensive to be portrayed on film," say the organisers. "It provides an insight into the essence of Bauhaus principles, the conflicts which led to Bauhaus' relocation from Weimar to Dessau, the disbandment of the school during the Nazi period, the construction activity in the young Israeli state, and the emergence of the Bauhaus myth in the USA."

100 years of Bauhaus

A series of Bauhaus events. Film screenings, dance performances, a conference and a closing party. April 3,11,19,28. Nicosia. Organised by Goethe-institut Cyprus. 
504
The Bauhaus Open House exhibitions opened last week celebrating 100 years of Bauhaus but there's plenty more related events to follow in the coming week as the Goethe-institut Cyprus teams up with a number of other local organisations to complete this series of events.

First up is a conference on Wednesday in collaboration with the Department of Architecture of the University of Nicosia to discuss and analyse Bauhaus from different perspectives with keynote speaker Dr Magdalena Droste.

The former director of the Bauhaus-Archiv Museum fE-r Gestaltung in Berlin, Droste will give an in-depth presentation about Bauhaus covering its history, the changes through its three different directors, the historical context of Bauhaus, leading up to the present day, 100 years after the Bauhaus school was founded in 1919.

Wanting to explore the more cultural aspect of Bauhaus besides its minimalist and revolutionary design, an evening of dance performances and a film screening is organised, honouring the themed costume parties and evenings of theatre and dance it often hosted. April 11 at Dancehouse Lefkosia will hold a choreography by Ariana Economou with specially-made costumes while a screening of the Triadic ballet film by Oskar Schlemmer will lead the audience into the world of Bauhaus and its famous ballet.

After the screening, three dancers will take to the stage, in their own self-designed Triadic ballet reminiscent body extensions. They'll present a new interpretation of Oskar Schlemmer's work, almost 100 years after its premiere in 1922.

More film screenings will follow on April 19, along with the closing party where DJ Rob Fleming will present some Post-Punk and Krautrock music selections influenced by the Bauhaus movement. Despite a closing party, there will be one more event to follow on April 28. Another film screening. This one will present a picture of this unique institution of artistic modernism; from the revolutionary outburst following the First World War to disbandment, emigration and professional advancement. It is former Bauhaus students who tell most of the story, their teachers having the chance to speak via archive material.

"This critical account of the artistic and political objectives of the Bauhaus is perhaps the most comprehensive to be portrayed on film," say the organisers. "It provides an insight into the essence of Bauhaus principles, the conflicts which led to Bauhaus' relocation from Weimar to Dessau, the disbandment of the school during the Nazi period, the construction activity in the young Israeli state, and the emergence of the Bauhaus myth in the USA."

100 years of Bauhaus

A series of Bauhaus events. Film screenings, dance performances, a conference and a closing party. April 3,11,19,28. Nicosia. Organised by Goethe-institut Cyprus. 
505
Contract notice: triple win implementation of intensive german language courses

The linguistic classification, language courses and examinations in the framework of the project triple win in tunisia should lead to nurses learning the level b1 of the german language and to the b1-certificate. level b1 of the german language is a prerequisite for entry into germany according to the arrangement between the federal employment agency and the tunisian employment service aneti. in separate service contracts concluded with the german employers, giz ensures that the nursing staff have the b1 certificate. only the certificates of the Goethe-institut, telc gmbh, the austrian language diploma (sd) and the testdaf institute e. v. accepted. in order to provide the services, contracts are to be concluded with two institutes. the service will be awarded in equal parts.

This contract is divided into lots: no

Time limit for receipt of tenders or requests to participate: date: 29/04/2019local time: 12:00

Conditions for opening tenders date: 29/04/2019local time: 12:00

Education

Major organization : DEUTSCHE GESELLSCHAFT FR INTERNATIONALE ZUSAMMENARBEIT (GIZ) GMBH

Address : Dag-Hammarskjld-Weg 1-5

Eschborn.
506
JUST ARATTAI MARKUS KORSELTChennaiites have always been vocal about their love for classical music. So, we weren't surprised to see that the hall at Music Academy was packed with rasikas gathering to appreciate a western classical performance. The concert, organised by Goethe-institut Max Muller Bhavan Chennai, featured Stuttgart Chamber Orchestra, and among those who were present that evening included Music Maestro Ilaiyaraaja. After a one-and-ahalf-hour-long concert by this German orchestra, we caught up with its general and artistic director, Markus Korselt. ExcerptsaNext year, we are completing 75 years. After the founding of the Stuttgart Chamber Orchestra by Karl Munchinger, who was also its conductor for decades, the orchestra became quite famous in a very short span of time. Until we formed the orchestra, it was quite common to play the repertoire of Bach, Mozart, Haydn and other famous composers with big symphony orchestras. That was completely wrong because during the periods of these composers, they would play their music only with a few musicians, not with a big orchestra. So, our orchestra tried to establish a new way of playing famous works with a chamber orchestra. Every single detail of the music is produced with much clarity. When you play polyphony, every single instrument is important, but if there are too many of them, it only makes a big sound. Therefore, we became cultural ambassadors for Germany! In the initial years, the orchestra also travelled with the president of Germany to many foreign countries.Though we are the oldest chamber orchestra in the world, we have very young musicians. The average age of the members is 36. And we constantly try to create new sounds. So, our core competence is a warm string sound, very touching and transparent at all times.One of our musicians in the orchestra met composer Sandeep Bhagwati at a concert and she told me, 'Well, there's an interesting composer from Mumbai and you should have a discussion with him'. I spoke to Sandeep after that and figured out which composition of his would suit for this tour to India. Now, we've played it in three citiesDelhi, Kolkata and Chennai.In the next two months, we will be doing two special concerts in Germanyone with a jazz trio from Norway and another concert with a band from Austria, which does electronic music. But we do these kinds of collaborations only if we have a strong feeling that we can create something completely new. If there's a possibility to be innovative, we're open to the idea of collaboration, be it with a jazz/electronic musician or with a sitar player. But let me also tell you that classical music doesn't need collaborations to stay relevant.He couldn't make it for the concert, but he proposed a concert with us. So, now, we'll work out the possibilities. He knows Stuttgart Chamber Orchestra very well and told me that he would be pleased to perform with us. He played something for us and it was very meditative. What I felt is that the complexity in playing sarod is not about playing it fast or very loud. It produces a very intimate sound. Well, his manager was telling me that in his kind of music, one gets better as you turn older. It's kind of contrary to our kind of music. Because in western classical, once you cross 40, it becomes slightly difficult to maintain the same level of technical brilliance.
507
Tenders are invited for consulting on impact measurement, development of monitoring instruments and accompanying evaluation of the martin roth initiative

City of magdeburg - central ... 11.04.19published: 20.03.19

Award procedure: services

Offer period: 15.04.2019

Major organization : Goethe-institut EV - ZENTRALE

Address : 10115 Berlin Berlin.
508
IT'S hard to believe you sent your little one off into a new grade a few short months ago. Somehow, these school holidays jumped right in front of you with no prior warning and no spare change.

Lucky for the kids, there's a host of activities available to do in various cities. The best part is that they're free.

Cape Town

n Urban parks are the new outdoor areas for stressed out folks who need to take a time out. Part of an urban design framework created by dhk for the V&A's previously underutilised Canal District, Battery Park is the latest outdoor development connecting Cape Town's V&A Waterfront with the central business district. The 12 000m2 park was opened in November, and links the city centre and Table Bay Harbour with a series of pedestrian routes. There are a variety of activities for visitors, including stand-up-paddling along the canal and fitness tracks, shopping and live entertainment. Key attractions include the Amsterdam Battery, the Piazza, and a family-friendly area, complete with a jungle gym, scooter path, swings and rocking horses. Because the area is shielded from the wind, it's a great place to have a family picnic on a Sunday afternoon. All facilities, including parking, is free.

Contact 021 408 7639 for more info

n Start them off young by fostering a love for reading. Every Saturday at 11am is story time at the Book Lounge. An independent bookshop in Cape Town, a relaxing atmosphere will provide enquiring minds with answers to their most pressing questions. And with a highly curated range of children's books, the bookshop prides itself in stocking reading material you wouldn't ordinarily find at a bigger retailer. Story time is free for all with a recommended age guideline between 3-8 years old - but all are welcome.

Visit: www.booklounge.co.za

Durban

n Designed with the little ones in mind, People's Park at Moses Mabhida Stadium is the answer to getting the blood pumping. The park has rolling lawns, an abundance of trees to climb, and fountains. There's lots of room for exploring as children can bring their bikes and test out the field and track area.

The playground is anything but boring, and features a sloping track that runs the length of the park - perfect for skateboarding and roller-skating. On warmer days, the fountains offer respite from the heat.

Don't forget to take with hats, sunscreen and a picnic basket for longer stays.

Contact: 031 303 5719

n The Durban Natural Science Museum (DNSM) is one of the oldest and most popular museums in SA. And there's good reason for it - it's the only natural science museum falling under local government, paying special attention to biodiversity conservation and ecology. With an unrivalled collection of small and large mammals, including a fossilised egg of an Elephant Bird - the largest bird ever on the planet, the "Kwanunu Insect Arcade" is still the big attraction. The museum is also home to the close-to-life-size Tyrannosaurus rex model and the 100-year-old near-complete Dodo skeleton.

Contact: 031 311 [euros]6

Johannesburg

n Zoo Lake is a fab picnic spot for outdoor enthusiasts. Enjoy a paddle across the man-made lake or a relaxing snooze under the shady grove of a tree. With no shortage of space, the kids are free to run around and go off exploring the various activities, including the basketball court, five-a-side soccer area and the historic Zoo Lake swimming pool (adults R12, children R9). Visit: www.gauteng.net/attractions/zoo_lake

n Young gamers will definitely be into the Gamebox. Hosted at the Goethe-institut, it offers an immersive experience and a platform to try out new digital games.

Children will be enthralled by the PlayStation 4 with virtual reality glasses, the Xbox One and Nintendo Switch. With special emphasis placed on the presentation of games by independent game developers, there's also a library providing a large collection of board games. 
509
Tenders are invited for Software maintenance for CA-Servicedesk Manager Suite

Major organization : Goethe-institut E.V. - ZENTRALE

Address : Dachauer Str. 122

Postleitzahl

80637

Ort

Mnchen.
510
Tenders are invited for advice on digital branding and optimization of the ux design at goethe.De

Lebenshilfe district association paderborn e.V. 01.04.19published: 13.03.19

Award procedure: services

Offer period: 08.04.2019

Major organization : Goethe-institut EV - ZENTRALE

Address : 80637 Mnchen Bayern

Country :Germany.
511
Tenders are invited for v 17-19 bhw w4, conversion 2nd floor, demolition and dismantling work

Goethe-institut e.V. - zentrale 08.04.19published: 13.03.19

Award procedure: construction services

Offer period: 02.04.2019

Major organization : VBK - VERKEHRSBETRIEBE KARLSRUHE GMBH

Address : Karlsruhe Baden-Wrttemberg

Country :Germany.
512
Gregory Austin Nwakunor and Tajudeen Sowole

The art market is thriving and record prices are regularly made and broken, and not just in the contemporary art market, but across virtually all top end sectors. But who are these people paying such prices for artworks? What motivates them? In this report, GREGORY AUSTIN NWAKUNOR (Arts and Culture Editor) and TAJUDEEN SOWOLE find out.

As the November sun descended on the hallowed ground of Civic Centre, Lagos, it was not hard to see why the city had become an art's hub and culture capital of West Africa: For the third year in a row, the 'State of Aquatic Splendour' stood still to experience ART X Lagos, the fair showcasing and supporting contemporary art from Africa and the diaspora.

Over the course of that weekend, November 2 to 4, 2018, ART X Lagos opened its doors to visitors from all over the world, including the guest of honour, the Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi (Ojaja II).

Collectors from across the world, fellow royal dignitaries including, the Obi of Onitsha, Igwe Nnaemeka Alfred Achebe and other guests, as well as art enthusiasts of all ages, joined the Ooni at the fair.

Eighteen leading galleries from across the world participated, showcasing the cutting edge of contemporary African art. The exhibiting galleries are Addis Fine Art (Ethiopia), Afriart Gallery (Uganda), Arthouse - The Space (Nigeria), Artyrama (Nigeria), Bloom Art (Nigeria), Circle Art Agency (Kenya), Gallery 1957 (Ghana), Nike Art Gallery (Nigeria), Nubuke Foundation (Ghana), Out of Africa Gallery (Spain), Retro Africa (Nigeria), Signature Beyond (Nigeria), SMAC Gallery (South Africa), SMO Contemporary (Nigeria), Stevenson (South Africa), TAFETA (UK), Thought Pyramid (Nigeria) and Tiwani Contemporary (UK).

Curated by A Whitespace Creative Agency, the fair featured diverse and exciting art installations across conductive art and virtual reality, stretching the boundaries of contemporary African art.

When the second edition also held, the fair drew more than 9,000 people -- bank executives, government officials, the Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi II and other potential customers.

Access Bank Plc, the major sponsor of ART X Lagos, loaned to the fair, Ben Enwonwu's iconic painting, Tutu, which in 2017, became the most highly valued work of Nigerian modern art ever sold at auction for Ãú1.2 million ($1.67 million). Initial estimates suggested it could sell for up to $417,000.

The public display of Tutu marked a hugely significant moment in Nigeria's art history, as the painting made its first public display in Nigeria since 1975, when it was last shown in Lagos.

In 1973 and 1974, Enwonwu painted three portraits of Princess Adetutu Ademiluyi. But all three versions of 'Tutu' had been missing even before the artist's death in 1994. One of them, it turned out, was the painting that hung inconspicuously in a London family's home.

The sale was a confirmation of Nigeria's arrival in the world of contemporary art, whose demand is booming in the U.S. and Europe. The newfound interest there is part of a larger cultural and economic revival. This demand has equally fueled a rise in the number of galleries and auction houses. It has also allowed many artists to make a living at home, reclaiming their Nigerian identities with creations that take on themes that resonate with a Nigerian audience, such as corruption, national and gender politics, and other issues.

Though there is no official statistics as to the value of Nigerian art market, it currently commands prices never before conceivable. Bush Babies, a 2017 work by US-based Njideka Akunyili-Crosby, was sold for $3,375,000. It has been described as a world record for an African art sale.

For now, it is a modest $5.55mn (Global figures stands at $63bn and global online art sales grossed over $5 billion). According to the Nigerian Art Market Report prepared by Jess Castellote, in 2017, only nine auctions dedicated to Modern or Contemporary African Art included a significant or predominant number of artworks by Nigerian artists: Arthouse (3), Bonhams (2), Piasa (2), Sogal (1) and Sotheby's (1).

That same year, the value of artworks by Nigerian artists sold at African Art auctions increased to $5,539,648 from $3,794,924 in 2016 and $2,990,395 in 2015.

There were 323 artworks and 140 artists. The number sold in Lagos was 225 and 98 in London and Paris.

Tokini Peterside, the founder of the fair, said one of her goals was "to encourage the increasing number of wealthy West Africans to see themselves as collectors and to see art as an investment."

Welcome Nigerian art collectors

Today, Nigeria is immersing itself in zeitgeist; a particular moment in history when art collecting has become a thriving venture. It has become a booming business. And for this singular reason, visual artists in the country have come to realise that big-time art collectors have a lot to do to encourage the profession to prosper.

Prior the millennium, art collecting was not exactly popular in the country, as nearly all the outlets for the projection of Nigerian art such as, museums were government-owned.

Apart from foreign culture missions such as, Alliance Francais and Goethe-institut, which also exhibited Nigerian art, critical appreciation was mostly restricted to museums.

The Centre for Contemporary Art (CCA), Lagos, founded by the late Bisi Silva expanded the narratives on critical appreciation of art in Nigeria and beyond.

Clearly, Nigerian collectors have a very robust trajectory in art appreciation to tap from. And as the secondary art market -- barely 11 years old -- energises the art collecting passion, the future is pregnant with questions.

The late Chief Torch Taire, Sammy Olagbaju, John Edokpolo, Chief Emmanuel Olisambu and Rasheed Gbadamosi were among collectors driven by aesthetic appreciation and not for investment.

Belonging to the same generation and passion in art collecting are Igwe Achebe and Omooba Yemisi Shyllon. Their vast collections have inspired yet to be opened privately funded new museums. The Shyllon Museum is being built at Pan Atlantic University (PAU), Ajah, Lagos, while the monarch's funded Chimedie Museum is in Onitsha Ado, Anambra State. Not forgetting Didi Museum by Newton Jibunoh.

Shyllon, who started his collection in 1971, said, "I can't remember the name of the artist, but the work was a wooden piece."

Collectors' appreciation tastes vary according to choice of artists and medium of genres of works. In over 48 years of art collecting, Shyllon hasn't developed any fatigue. "If I were to instantly write a cheque for any artwork now, it would be one of El AnatsuI's aluminum foils."

What to know about art collectors

Every man is an artist, said Joseph Beuys. That may be, but not every artist is worth collecting. "A good artist hunts elusive and rare game called the 'art collector'. "They are mostly solitary creatures roaming the plains of the art gallery establishment. They need very tasty bait to come out of hiding, cheque books in hand," art critics have argued. A good artist gets inside of an art collector's mind.

UBS AG, a Swiss global financial services company co-headquartered in Zirich and Basel, in a recent survey aimed at establishing what motivated collectors to spend time and money on artworks during the year of 2017, noted that passion outweighed the potential profit in the purchase of artwork.

The survey said 71 per cent of collectors were mainly driven by the appreciation of what they personally saw as beautiful artworks and the passion for expanding the collection.

Furthermore, 32 per cent of collectors stated that they like to support up-and-coming artists, while 29 per cent agreed that they see their collections as something deeply rooted in their respective cultures.

About 23 per cent of the interviewed individuals noted that they plan to gift their art to charities and 18 per cent of them said that they see the collection as a means of achieving diversification.

As the survey found out, pro¼üt is rarely a driving factor for someone collecting art.

Only 13 per cent of the collectors said that they plan to sell their art at any point in time, while a mere nine per cent stated that they see their collections as a hedge against inflation, usually a big aspect of art investing strategies.

Most people buying art are not art collectors. They are just people who like to decorate their homes with nice things. If you and your art have a good name, then these home decorators will buy your art, maybe even lots of it. There is money to be made there.

Though collectors have habits that are sometimes considered as queer, like the oil billionaires, J Paul Getty and Calouste Gulbenkian, who were famously known to be miserly, they, however, sustained the art.

Getty is said to have installed a payphone in his mansion in Surrey, England, to stop visitors from making long-distance calls. He even refused to pay ransom for a kidnapped grandson for so long that the frustrated kidnappers sent him his grandson's ear in the mail.

Yet he spent millions of dollars on art, and millions more to build the Getty Museum in Los Angeles.

He called himself 'an apparently incurable art-collecting addict', and noted that he had vowed to stop collecting several times, only to suffer 'massive relapses'. Fearful of airplanes and too busy to take the time to sail to California from his adopted hometown of London, he never even visited the museum his money had filled.

Another wealthy oilman, Gulbenkian, accumulated a fabulous art collection and called the works 'my children'. Mostly ignoring his flesh-and-blood son and daughter, he lived to serve his art.

Claiming that 'my children must have privacy' and 'a home fit for Gulbenkians to live in', he built a mansion in Paris with barricades, watchdogs and a private secret service.

But even this extreme of a collector who prefers art to people shows the importance of the social role of collecting, since Gulbenkian simply treated artworks as if they were people.

Collectors drive the art world, but what drives art collectors? It's less about aesthetics than self-identification

Another popular explanation for collecting - financial gain - cannot explain why collectors go to such lengths. Of course, many people buy art for financial reasons. You can resell works, sometimes, reaping enormous profit. You can get large tax deductions for donating art to museums.

Meanwhile, some collectors have figured out how to keep their artworks close at hand while still getting a tax deduction by donating them to private museums that they've set up on their own properties. More nefariously, some 'collectors' buy art as a form of money laundering, since it is far easier to move art than cash between countries without scrutiny.

Be that as it may, the reality of art being commercialised can hardly be separated from its aesthetic value. In fact, the increasing vibrancy of the secondary art market in Nigeria, since 2008, when Arthouse auctions unearthed new value for African art, has inspired collectors' commercial drive.

"No, it is not driven by commerce," Shyllon said. "They are driven by investment value." While admitting that he doesn't sell art, he argued that those who see art as investment are justified. "I see the value of art rising astronomically in Nigeria, and investors like to put their money where it will increase in value."

In fact, Shyllon, a stockbroker, insisted that apart from enjoying the aesthetics, "art is a better investment than many of the known vehicles, for example treasury bills and others."

With astronomical rise in the value of art as investment, some purists in the critical appreciation field have expressed fear that the joy of art collecting might be lost in the future.

"It can never be lost," Shyllon disagreed, noting that the more people invest in art, the better for creativity. "Artists, curators, historians and valuers will be inspired to work harder just like more investment has not reduced the joy of art appreciation in Europe and America, it cannot be lost in Nigeria too."

Jeff Ajueshi, whose galleries, in Lagos and Abuja, deal with collectors across generations, cautioned that art collecting also involved a bit of academics. He noted that researching and making careful study of the art scene by building a passion for art "and getting to know the artists you wish to collect," are basic foundation for collecting.

They do not want cheap art. They like expensive art. Very expensive art, and very rarely do they descend low to get what they want.

"Most serious artists who the real collectors chase do a major amount of work to get to where they are. Often they study, travel, sometimes choose to live in extreme circumstances, they mix with other about-to-be famous artists in 'a school' and they pull off major exhibitions in serious galleries of both the commercially and culturally important kind. They don't tend to paint nice landscapes on a Sunday for delivery to the local gallery on Monday," said an art critic.

They live full and colourful lives. They are interesting, intriguing and their legend grows as their dealers, friends and hangers-on spread the word of their artistic exploits throughout the land.

What they will do if they are really interested in you is watch and wait. They will keep an eye out for you in the galleries (who are really selling fine art - not local tourist galleries) and the magazines; they will quietly pop by to see how your exhibitions are doing. They will hold you on mental file until such time that you prove you and your art are a worthy investment either culturally or financially, and then as your star begins to ascend into the stratosphere and you are actually selling fine art (in quantity) they will begin to pick up some of your work.

In probing behavioural pattern of collectors, art gallery owners cannot be pushed aside. Ajueshi, director of Thought Pyramid Art Centre, recalled his early encounters with art as a kid during a visit to the National Museum, Benin City, Edo State.

An interaction with a wood sculptor when he accompanied his father to collect a walking stick also triggered his interest and love for art appreciation. Decades after, he is not just an arts collector, but also an entrepreneur.

"Art is priceless and for any art that speaks to me and appeals to my spirit, I will be willing to acquire at whatever cost," Ajueshi, whose experience in gallery management is nearly two decades, said.

It is every collector's dream to have the old masters in their walls. In fact, fresh and young collectors are not left out of the race for tastes of the old masters. But there is the need to take one step before the next.

"Enwonwu was not selling as much as N1 million when he was alive, neither did El Anatsui start selling in millions," Shyllon said as advice to young or fresh collectors.

He also advised those newly going into art collecting to start with young artists. He, however, cautioned, "art should not be seen from the monetary perspective alone."

He also advised young collectors not to see patronage as doing the artist a favour. "Respect the artist just as you respect their works."

Tracking the trajectory of art collecting in Nigeria, Ajueshi recalled that the people were very art-conscious before the incursion of Western culture. "We lost our way along the line due to Westernisation and financial instability, but now we are beginning to find ourselves back and thus art collection has improved," Ajueshi argued.

He added that collecting art of Nigerian origin is promoting "our culture, history and way of life."

Specifically, on what drives art collecting in Nigeria, Ajueshi stated: "collection of art in Nigeria is driven by the love of culture, history and also it doubles as a means of investment."

Ajueshi belongs in the new generation of art collectors and gallery owners. He, however, seemed exposed enough to look at the future of art appreciation in Nigeria.

"I foresee a boom in a few years as the art sector in Nigeria is gradually taking proper form and the foundations of a proper structure are being set."

He cited as "ripple effect" what he noted as strengthening of "creation of art by artists and greater promotion and interest in the art which will further increase the collection of Nigerian art both by local and the international community."

Factors that motivate Nigerian collectors

Though not all collectors buy art for the same reason, knowing what motivates the collector in front of you might help get your art out the door. Many collectors seek to accumulate possessions no one else has while other collectors collect to further embrace a hobby they already love. For art collectors, both of these reasons are true, but there are several specific reasons are lovers choose to collect art.

To support the arts: Dedicated art collectors understand the value art has on society. To support their deep passion for the arts, art collectors take it upon themselves to strengthen the industry.

Edokpolo's collection and his enduring interactions with artists had stretched his relationship with artists beyond mere collection. He wasn't just a collector. He wasn't just a buyer and keeper of art works. He was a true art patron in the real sense of the word: He took special interest in the wellbeing of the artist.

He believed that only the emotional balance of the artist could bring out the best of his creativity. This he had demonstrated in his steady financial aid to some artists. An unforgettable experience was that of Benin-based artist, Amos Odion, who even told the story to many people before Edokpolo confirmed the same to me.

Apart from collecting works at exhibition venues and artist studios, Edokpolo regularly commissioned artists to produce large-size works. This is rare in art collection in Nigeria. A 24 feet x 6 feet painting produced by Abayomi Barber is a typical example of such rare massive sizes in his collection. Other artists with monumental sizes in his collection include Toyin Alade, Bimbo Adenugba, Mufu Onifade, Bruce Onobrakpeya, Amos Odio, Monday Akhidue and more.

Edokpolo, who was a dedicated art collector for over 44 years, had over 400 works in his repertoire.

The late Olagbaju, who died in September 2016, at 75, for more than two decades, was among three of the regular art collectors whose presence at art exhibitions in Nigeria were synonymous with the number of red stickers on the walls of galleries.

Olagbaju's texture of art collection transcended his base; he collected art from countries across Africa.

Beyond collecting art, Olagbaju also extended his love for art appreciation to the terrain of documentation. In 2012, he sponsored the publication of a book titled Contemporary Nigerian Art in Lagos Private Collections.

Olagbaju sponsored quite a number of art exhibitions, particularly those featuring works of young artists.

To preserve history: Owning a work of art often means owning a piece of history. Many collectors draw on their heritage to collect art from artists with similar backgrounds or life stories. Some collectors seek limited editions from high-profile artists to claim their stake on art history.

Shyllon owns about 7,000 pieces of artworks ranging from traditional and neo-traditional African art to contemporary painting and sculptures. According to CNN, Shyllon's is the largest art collection in Africa.

Shyllon's private foundation, the Omooba Yemisi Adedoyin Shyllon Art Foundation (OYASAF) regularly sponsors international fellowships and workshops, as well as lends artworks to international museums.

Shyllon yearly brings scholars, curators and art historians from outside Nigeria to visit and study his collection, interacts with Nigerian artists and other art collectors, and promotes research into Nigerian culture, including other art forms of interest to scholars.

His collections comprise artworks from other African countries like Togo, South Africa, Senegal, Ghana and Cameroon. He believes that by collecting art, he is safeguarding Nigerian cultural heritage.

"I don't believe collections should just be about collecting and enjoying art. I think it should go beyond just collecting - it should go into the element of propagating the culture or the heritage of the people and way of life of the people.

"Not only that, it should finally go to the extent of creating a legacy," Shyllon said of his enthusiasm for art works.

His foundation has donated many life-size sculptural monuments to public places and institutions in Nigeria, notably among which are, the 18 life-size sculptural works of art to the Freedom Park, Lagos, and significant monuments to the Universities of Lagos and Ibadan.

To reveal their personality: Obtaining artwork is a powerful way to express one's personality. While some collectors stick with a certain style or specific artist, others collect a diverse range of artwork from various artists to convey different sides of their personality.

Art collectors understand the unmatched feeling of discovering a new work of art for their collection. After carefully researching, nothing compares to finally encountering new artworks for their collection.

When Shyllon first started, it was merely a thing of interest. It became a passion and eventually an obsession. Now, it has become an interesting vocation that engages his mind and allows him to give positive value back to the society.

Olufemi Akinsanya's passion for traditional Nigerian art started from his childhood. Today, his collection comprises hundreds of classic and traditional art figures, masks, costumes and objects from almost every ethnic group in Nigeria--from the Yoruba to the Chamba people of neighbouring Cameroun.

Akinsanya's collection demonstrates the continued existence of important indigenous artworks in Nigeria and also documents their changing forms.

He also realised over time, that these objects depicted cultural practices of his own people. When he started collecting, Akinsanya felt that he had a responsibility not to end up with a collection full of forgeries. He decided on a strategy to be more prudent, diligent and careful. Thus, he cultivated a small club of Nigerian dealers -- some of whom are actively sourcing objects for notable collectors offshore. Now, because of many years of continuing relationship and patronage, some of these dealers show him objects before they show anyone else.

He has been collecting for more than half of his life now, and still only buys objects he finds attractive. While acknowledging that many objects were made and incorporated into traditional religious practices, he noted that not all pieces were used for religious purposes; some were simply decorative and others were used in social contexts. "Nevertheless, I know for a fact that these objects were made by artists; people that were practising art as their profession," he said in an earlier interview with The Guardian.

To adorn their homes: This may seem obvious, but decorating living spaces is a major reason art collectors embrace their passion. Coming home to see a favourite painting every day is a completely different experience than walking past it in a gallery. Collectors want to live with their art and let it seep into the soul of their homes.

Gbadamosi was known as an avid collector of works of art, sculptures and others. He was also a founding member and later Vice-Chairman of the Visual Art Society of Nigeria (VASON). This was in recognition of the pervasive influence, which the master- artist, Yusuf Grillo, had on him on his return to Nigeria in 1966. He was particularly thrilled and fond of Grillo's art titled, 'Awopa procession', a depiction of Lagos traditional ritual setting.

One other invaluable work of art in possession of Gbadamosi is the piece on the palace of Oba of Ikorodu painted by the artist, Kehinde Sanwo. The work becomes more relevant today, in the words of Gbadamosi, because "within two years of my acquiring that work, the Oba's palace was demolished to pave the way for a more befitting structure to be built by the Lagos State government."

Another artwork owned by Gbadamosi was the house of the popularly acclaimed multi-millionaire of old, Da Rocha. "Whenever I see Pa Da Rocha's building depicted on canvas by Sanwo, it reminds me of the man I used to see being driven in cart, just like Queen of England on a cart-ride. But this building and others are no more because we are used to ruins in this country. Thank God, I have the paintings to remind us of that period."

One unique feature of Gbadamosi's art collections is that, "he was perhaps the only collector that boasts of about 100 or more different artists spread across paintings, sculptures, mixed media and prints."

To express emotion: Art collectors often feel a deep connection to the artwork in their collection. Whether an important memory or a family likeness, collectors often express deep emotions through their collections.

To connect with an artist: Many art collectors feel a kinship with a certain artist because of their background, style of work or life story. To connect with that artist, collectors avidly follow their journey and acquire works of art from the artist's collection. The Indian-born, London-educated art collector Kavita Chellaram, in 2007, founded Arthouse Contemporary, an auction house based in Lagos that focuses on modern and contemporary art from West Africa.

Being an avid collector, her meticulous research in art auction houses has led to the global recognition of numerous modern African masters, including Ben Enwonwu, Kolade Oshinowo, Bruce Onobrakpeya, Ablade Glover, Yusuf Grillo and Uche Okeke.

She originally started collecting art for a very simple reason - because she wanted to fill the walls in her house. She came from a family that collected art and had an understanding from a young age about the importance of art. She also started collecting as an extension of her own heritage and experiences, first collecting Indian art and then moving to Nigerian art.

The first works of Nigerian art she bought were at an exhibition in Lagos in 1977. She bought works by Twins Seven Seven and Jimoh Buraimoh. At that time, the art market in Lagos as it is known today was almost non-existent.

Chellaram's collection covers both modern and contemporary works of art. Her collection is diverse. It includes painting, sculpture, photography and mixed media. She does not have a particular focus on style or period; she collects what moves her.
513

The second edition of Chennai Photo Biennale (C`PB), an international biennale of photography, will begin tomorrow in Chennai with large scale exhibitions in a variety of public spaces, showing works by over 50 artists in print from 13 countries.

To be held between February 22 and March 24, the Biennale will include an extensive programme of artist talks, workshops, films, projections, residencies and skill development in photography among others.

The Biennale, co-founded and co-organised by the CPB Foundation and the Goethe-institut/Max Mueller Bhavan, Chennai, has chosen renowned sculptor and photo performance artist Pushpamala N. as the artistic director for the second edition, an emailed statement issued here said.

The philosophy for this edition is Fauna of Mirrors, an old Chinese myth that talks about an alternate universe that exists behind the mirror, another dimension which is home to unknown creatures and unknown worlds.

Pushpamala N. explores the myth to see if the practice of photography is a reflection of modern life, creating a parallel world of images - familiar yet strange, perhaps friendly and intimate, sometimes mysterious and hostile - but always magical. The curatorial concept uses the ancient fable to ruminate in a philosophical and poetic way around photography today.

'The Chennai Photo Biennale seeks to expand the field of photography with a terrific array of photo-artists who use the language of photography to speak to the world. Set in important historical and contemporary venues across the city, the Biennale will be a thought-provoking, spectacular and entertaining public festival,' Pushpamala N said. One of the highlights of the Biennale is the International Photography Conference on March 16 - 17 March (to be held at the historic Egmore Museum Theatre). First of its kind in India, it is open to all. The title of the conference is Light Writing: The Photographic Image Reloaded and it is supported by the Shergil-Sundaram Arts Foundation and presented by Savera. The conference will include a dynamic programme of artists.
514
Beginning on February 22, it will showcase works by over 50 artists from 13 countries

Sheba Chhachhi and Sonia Jabbar, Detail from ' When the gun is raised, dialogue stops....' women voices from the Kashmir valley , 2000/2005 Image Credit: Supplied

Showing works by more than 50 artists in print from 13 countries, the second edition of Chennai Photo Biennale -- an international biennale of photography -- will be held between February 22 and March 24. The south Indian city of Chennai will play host to large scale exhibitions in a variety of public spaces.

The biennale will also include an extensive programme of artist talks, workshops, films, projections, residencies, skill development in photography and much more.

Well-known sculptor and photo performance artist Pushpamala N. is the Artistic Director for the second edition of the biennale which was co-founded and co-organised by the CPB Foundation and the Goethe-institut/ Max Mueller Bhavan, Chennai. The theme for this edition is Fauna of Mirrors , an old Chinese myth that talks about an alternate universe that exists behind the mirror, another dimension which is home to unknown creatures and unknown worlds. Pushpamala N. explores the myth to see if the practice of photography is a reflection of modern life, creating a parallel world of images -- familiar yet strange, perhaps friendly and intimate, sometimes mysterious and hostile -- but always magical.

"The Chennai Photo Biennale seeks to expand the field of photography with a terrific array of photo-artists who use the language of photography to speak to the world. Set in important historical and contemporary venues across the city, the biennale will be a thought-provoking, spectacular and entertaining public festival," says Pushpamala N.

Speaking about the biennale, the founder of Chennai Photo Biennale, Varun Gupta, said "As a photographer and artist, I have travelled to photo festivals and art biennales around the world and returned inspired by the quality of exhibits and the sense of community that these events foster. Chennai Photo Biennale aims to establish a much-needed home for photography in India which brings together practitioners, allied arts, curators, gallerists and the general public to elevate the medium in the region."

Armin Linke, Cinema screen , Guiyu, China, 2005

During the biennale, a two-day International Photography Conference will be held on March 16 - 17 at the Egmore Museum Theatre. Open to all, the title of the conference is Light Writing: The Photographic Image Reloaded. The conference will include a dynamic programme of artists, curators and scholars from different parts of the world who will present papers and discuss the state of photography today. Speakers include Ashwini Asokan (India), Diwas Raja KC (Nepal), Emeka Okereke (Nigeria), Kristoffer Gansing (Germany), M.K. Raghavendra (India), Rashmi Sawhney (India), P. Sainath (India), Sabeena Gadihoke (India), Satyajit Mayor (India), Shela Sheikh (UK), T. Shanaathanan (Sri Lanka), Y.S. Alone (India), Zhuang Wubin (Singapore).

In its second edition, a key initiative that the biennale wanted to undertake was to work with students at an early stage of learning. The CPB Education Program was launched in November 2018 and has run iPhone photo camps in schools across Chennai with 265 students (ages 10-16) which will also continue after the biennale. An advanced residential photography workshop with 25 selected students was conducted between February 1-3 and the resulting works will be showcased at the biennale.

The biennale aims to engage and enrich diverse communities and encourage viewing photography in a more democratic and accessible way. By energising venues all over Chennai, the biennale hopes to enhance the cultural offering of the city to residents and visitors alike. Locations include Senate House -- the University of Madras, Government College of Fine Arts, Government Museum, Madras Literary Society, Southern Railway: Chennai Mass Rapid Transit System (MRTS), Cholamandal Artists' Village and Art Houz Gallery with many of the exhibitions adapted to the exceptional architecture and ambience of the venues.

The biennale includes international artists, many of whom have been supported by Foreign Cultural institutions in India including the British Council, InKo Centre, Canadian Consulate, Institut Francais, Japan Foundation and Pro-Helvetia Delhi.

"Goethe-institut Chennai focuses on public art, bringing art to frequented and unexpected urban spaces, sharing ideas openly, initiating new conversations in the city for public impact. In a fast-growing metro like Chennai, in "Incredible India" that continues to be shaped by so many divides, this seems obvious. From the very start, there has been the vision to create a big and meaningful photography event accessible for everyone: Chennai Photo Biennale!," said Helmut Schippert, Founder CPB and Director, Goethe-institut / Max Mueller Bhavan, Chennai

Participating Indian artists include 3rd Space Lab Collective, Aishwarya Arumbakkam, Akhila Vijayaraghavan, Amshu Chukki, Archana Hande, Arpan Mukherjee, Arun Vijai Mathavan, Atul Bhalla, Balaji Maheshwar, CAMP India, Cop Shiva, D. Ravinder Reddy, Dayanita Singh, Desire Machine Collective, Gauri Gill, Indu Antony, J.H. Thakker, Karthik Subramanian, Kowshik Vasudevan, Manjunath Kamath, Nalini Malani, among others.

Spme of the participating international artists are Angela Grauerholz (Canada) , Anna Fox (UK), Armin Linke (Germany), Catherine Leutenegger (Switzerland), Chan Hyo Bae (South Korea), Jason Shulman (UK), Kader Attia (France & Algeria), Liz Fernando (Germany), Manit Sriwanichpoom (Thailand), Munem Wasif (Bangladesh) ,

Naeem Mohaiemen (Bangladesh), Putu Sayoga (Indonesia) and Rabih Mroue (Lebanon).
515
The last time B Kayalvizhi represented Tamil Nadu at the nationals in Haryana, she realized that her inadequate knowledge of Hindi prevented her and her team from bonding with other teams. Now, 16-year-old is part of a 14-member team from the Government Girls Higher Secondary School, Namakkal, that will be taken to Germany by Goethe-institut Max Mueller Bhavan Chennai, on Friday to participate in a Football Youth Camp at Schlotheim.This time, the forward from Thanjavur is determined to employ the very cultural differences that once singled them out to forge new friendships. "We want to show our German friends the best things about our culture and pick up the best things from theirs," she says.For most girls of this team this will be their first trip overseas. The team which won the Goethe Super League, an interschool football tournament last year, has been trained by the Sports Development Authority of Tamil Nadu (SDAT), Namakkal. Many of them have been living at the SDAT hostel for years. They are among the top players of Tamil Nadu in the 13-16 age group and have participated in 3 national and 20 state level tournaments."A big drive behind this initiative is to promote German among students in Tamil Nadu and identify talented players to nurture them. Sending these girls on a trip like this will encourage more young women with passion for the game to courageously pursue it," says Prabhakar Narayanan, head of the language department, Goethe-institut Max Mueller Bhavan Chennai.
516
The last time B Kayalvizhi represented Tamil Nadu at the nationals in Haryana, she realized that her inadequate knowledge of Hindi prevented her and her team from bonding with other teams. Now, 16-year-old is part of a 14-member team from the Government Girls Higher Secondary School, Namakkal, that will be taken to Germany by Goethe-institut Max Mueller Bhavan Chennai, on Friday to participate in a Football Youth Camp at Schlotheim.This time, the forward from Thanjavur is determined to employ the very cultural differences that once singled them out to forge new friendships. oWe want to show our German friends the best things about our culture and pick up the best things from theirs,o she says.For most girls of this team this will be their first trip overseas. The team which won the Goethe Super League, an interschool football tournament last year, has been trained by the Sports Development Authority of Tamil Nadu (SDAT), Namakkal. Many of them have been living at the SDAT hostel for years. They are among the top players of Tamil Nadu in the 13-16 age group and have participated in 3 national and 20 state level tournaments.oA big drive behind this initiative is to promote German among students in Tamil Nadu and identify talented players to nurture them. Sending these girls on a trip like this will encourage more young women with passion for the game to courageously pursue it,o says Prabhakar Narayanan, head of the language department, Goethe-institut Max Mueller Bhavan Chennai.
517
Marupakkam, a city-based media activist group, along with Goethe-institut is organising the 7th International Documentary and Short Film Festival in the city, featuring more than 50 films from across the world. The festival, which kicked off on Wednesday and will go on till February 10, was inaugurated by celebrated documentary filmmaker Anand Patwardhan at Goethe-institut, Nungambakkam.The lineup comprises of 35 documentaries and 15 short films from countries such as Israel, Russia, Spain and China, besides Germany and India. Among the highlights this year will be the screening of German film director, screenwriter and author Werner Herzog's celebrated works including 'Das Land des Schweigens und der Dunkelheit' (Land of Silence and Darkness) and 'Glaube und Whrung' (God's Angry Man), under the Retrospective category. Award-winning Indian filmmaker Reena Mohan, known for her film 'Kamlabai' - about a yesteryear actor of the Marathi stage, will also be part of the Retrospective, and an interactive session at the festival."We shortlisted films in a way that we show audience new styles and interventions in documentary filmmaking, as well as the political and social issues that are being discussed around the world today. This year, we have something called 'Artists' Cinema', which is presented by C Venkiteswaran. It's a special concept because it includes films by artists, graphic designers and painters, which are usually showcased at art festivals. At a film festival like this one, they offer a great opportunity for filmmakers and audiences to watch something unique and rare," says Amudhan R P, the festival's director and founder of Marupakkam.The festival's filmmaker in focus this year will be Supriyo Sen, who has made internationally acclaimed documentaries such as 'Wagah' and 'Hope Dies Last in War', it received prestigious grants such as the Sundance Documentary Fund and Asian Network of Documentary Award of the Pusan International Film Festival.
518
Photography enthusiasts and others who're looking for spending some time soaking in the atmosphere at an international event can rejoice. The dates for the second edition of Chennai Photo Biennale, an international biennale of photography, have been announced. The event, that draws many an international eye, will be held between February 22 and March 24, 2019. The 30-day-long festival would be held at 30 venues across the city with over 150 artists participating.As a part of the biennale, large scale exhibitions of works by over 50 artists from across 13 countries will be on display all over public spaces in Chennai. The biennale will also give Chennaiites a peep into artist talks, workshops, films, projections, skill development classes in in photography... The biennale, co-founded and co-organised by the CPB Foundation and the Goethe-institut/Max Mueller Bhavan, Chennai, has chosen renowned sculptor and photo performance artiste, Pushpamala N as the Artistic Director for the second edition.The theme for this edition of the event will be Fauna of Mirrors - which is based on a Chinese myth that says there's an alternate universe behind the mirror, another dimension that is home to creatures and worlds unknown to mankind. "The Chennai Photo Biennale seeks to expand the field of photography with a terrific array of photo-artists who use the language of photography to speak to the world. And we plan to make Chennai spectacular with public installations," says Pushpamala. Locations include Senate House, the University of Madras, Government College of Fine Arts, Government Museum, Madras Literary Society, and Southern Railway: Chennai Mass Rapid Transit System (MRTS), Cholamandal Artists' Village and Art Houz Gallery. "Goethe-institut Chennai focuses on public art, bringing art to unexpected urban spaces, sharing ideas openly, initiating new conversations in the city for public impact. In a fast-growing metro like Chennai, in "Incredible India" that continues to be shaped by so many divides, this seems obvious," explains Helmut Schippert, Director, Goethe.The International Photography Conference (March 16-17) held at the historic Egmore Museum Theatre is a first of its kind in India, and this event will be open to all. Curators and scholars from across the world, including stalwarts like Emeka Okereke (Nigeria), Kristoffer Gansing (Germany), MK Raghavendra (India), and Zhuang Wubin (Singapore), will participate.
519
 The first three-day 'Adab Festival Pakistan' opened at the Sindh Governor's House on Friday amid the presence of a large number of writers, poets, intellectuals and book lovers.

Ameena Saiyid and Asif Farrukhi, who founded the Karachi Literature Festival (KLF) about ten years ago and are now co-founders of the Adab Festival, delivered their speeches at the inaugural ceremony along with Dr Ishrat Husain, Arfa Sayeda Zehra and Seyyed Vali Nasr.

The festival will continue till February 3 and will feature various sessions on different topics and will be attended by some of the most prominent literary figures of the country.

'Through Adab Festival, we want to create a new Silk Route through which all the grandeur of our traditions and culture, literature and the arts, expressed through every language in the country, can travel out of obscurity to join the world's assemblage of cultures and their luscious fruit,' said Saiyid, adding that they had planned different activities to celebrate the diverse literature of Pakistan in different languages and will launch books coupled with talks, interviews, poetry sessions, book fairs, theatre, dance and music shows, among others.

'We are thankful to all of you, especially the international authors, for your presence and participation.'

For love of literature: 1st Adab Festival to be held on February 1

Farrukhi, calling the event 'amazing, challenging and exciting,' said that it marked a decade of literary festivals in Pakistan.

He said that Saiyid and he had taken a risky step a decade ago when organising the KLF, thinking that it was a gamble and only a few people would turn up.

However, the event was so successful that they had to extend the festivals to Lahore, Islamabad and other cities of Pakistan.

'With this success story behind us, we have organised the Adab Festival this year to celebrate literature in other languages and recognise emerging voices as well.

We have started from scratch with a small team, but are determined to make it successful because of our working relation with books, poets and writers,' he said, adding that there were lovely voices, laughing and whispering that have assured us, saying, 'You are not alone.'

He paid rich tribute to noted poetess Fahmida Riaz, who passed away in November last year and said, 'She remained a guiding spirit for me.' He also read the last poem of Riaz, 'Mein Naheen Akele Duniya Mein [I am not alone in this world],' and said that Riaz was still alive in the hearts of people.

Sindh Governor Imran Ismail in his speech focused on politics and the austerity drive started by the federal government. 'We have opened the doors of Governor's House to public and this all has become possible because of Prime Minister Imran Khan's vision.'

Ismail said that Karachi, for the last many years, had not produced quality literature. 'Instead of producing poets and writers, we unfortunately witnessed terrorists,' he said, adding that now peace has returned to the city, which was helping revive its past glory.

Calling himself a 'fan of literature', he said, 'I will welcome you all to organise such events every year until I am the governor.' He suggested the organisers to take the event to an international level by including literary figures from India and other countries.

Khalid Mahmood, Managing Director and CEO of Gets Pharma (pharmaceutical company), which was the lead sponsor of the event, said that his company's support for literature festivals was meant to create a healthy society, which is only possible with healthy souls. 'Peace and prosperity in any society can only prevail wherever, there is space for debate.'

He expressed concern over government's ignorance in supporting literature and arts in Pakistan and said, 'I believe that creative literature can reflect a society's ills, sorrows and joys and we should not hide it.' He said that good literature could not flourish in any society without having tolerance.

Stefan Winkler, Director of Goethe-institut in Karachi, said that Goethe-institut had been helping literary events in Pakistan with the aim to bring literary and intellectual people on one platform.

Adviser to the Prime Minister on Institutional Reforms and Austerity Dr Ishrat Husain started his keynote speech with social, political and economic dilemmas in the world and in this region, which according to him, were significant for the youth of Pakistan in near future.

Husain said that after the collapse of Soviet Union, balance of Left and Right disappeared and a sharp division between both powerful blocs was no longer valid.

'This has overtaken different types of issues such as authoritarian, populist, nationalist, anti-gender, migrant and anti-migrants policies, which have divided societies in the world,' he said and referred to Brexit, the withdrawal of UK from the European Union (EU).

He quoted that the example of Italy and other European countries where nationalist parties have made significant electoral gains.

Dr Hussain added that the global institutions like World Bank, International Monetary Fund (IMF), which have monopoly of powers, don't have influence anymore as they had in past to deal with such situations.

He talked about the influence of China especially its 'one belt one road' initiative that is going to cost trillions in 65 countries.

Talking about technological revolution, he said that Pakistan should adopt new mode of technology otherwise it would be left behind. 'Parents should stop telling their kids to become doctors or engineers. We need technology experts to meet the global requirements,' he said.
520
Tenders are invited for position of the occupational health service for the university of applied sciences ostwestfalen-lippe

Goethe-institut mongolia 15.02.19published: 25.01.19

Award procedure: services

Offer period: 22.02.2019

Major organization : HOCHSCHULE OSTWESTFALEN-LIPPE.
521
Directing and producing works remain a challenge for women filmmakers in Bangladesh, much like anywhere else.

Although women have been involved in this region's film industry from the beginning, they still face many challenges on their way to become directors, noted Samia Zaman, the founding president of International Film Initiative of Bangladesh (IFIB).

Samia's IFIB and the Goethe-institut have come up with an initiative - 'Through Her Eyes' - to showcase works of female filmmakers and give people an opportunity to enjoy them.

"At present, we have a very few female filmmakers here," she said. "But it's assuring that we got some new female filmmakers who are making films, documentary and short films. Thus, we felt the need to showcase their works."

Goethe-institut Bangladesh Director Kirsten Hackenbroch said their goal is to promote Bangladeshi women filmmakers. "It's where young filmmakers have a chance to find a forum or space to discuss, to share their sorrows, and get guidance," she said.

Hackenbroch said they want to create a platform where young, aspiring and talented filmmakers from Bangladesh can ask questions to those who have already gone through the international stage, can reflect on their possession, on their career perspectives and enter into discourse with the larger group of society.

"We hope this sharing between seniors and juniors, between more experienced and less experienced filmmakers will create an atmosphere of helping each other, of being available for each other, of being mentors to the younger generation," she said.

Samia Zaman said Rubaiyat Hossain's 'Under Construction' would be the first film to be screened as part of the 'Through Her Eyes' series on Sunday.

"The movie has received international recognition, including at the Dhaka International Film Festival. We hope film enthusiasts will join us to enjoy films at 5pm of third Sunday of every month at the Goethe-institut," she said.
522
The 7th Chennai International Documentary and Short Film Festival (CIDSFF) would be held here from Feburary 6 to 10.

The festival would be held at Goethe-institut/Max Mueller Bhavan in cooperation with 'Marupakkam', in which around 50 films would be screened.

The films would be screened under various categories that included Indian films, International films, Retrospective: Werner Herzog, Retrospective: Reena Mohan, Contemporary German Films, Filmmaker in Focus: Supriyo Sen, 9 Pen Cinemackal: Curated by Archana Padmini, Artists' Cinema: Curated by C S Venkiteswaran, Gandhi, Gandhiness and Cinema Vimarsha: Curated and Presented by Amrit Gangar and Films from Tamilnadu, a release from Max Mueller Bhavan said on Friday.

'Marupakkam' was a media activist group that makes screens and disseminates documentary films across South India.
523
Contract notice: maintenance cleaning for the headquarters of the Goethe-institut

The Goethe-institut ev requires for the object: Goethe-institut ev - headquarters, oskar von miller ring 18 80333 munich a service provider for the maintenance cleaning: the cleaning serves to maintain the substance and keep clean the objects to be cleaned. the object is an administration building with seminar operation. within the maintenance cleaning all 5 floors are to be cleaned. details of the service building can be found in the specifications with systems.

This contract is divided into lots: no

Time limit for receipt of tenders or requests to participate: date: 25/02/2019local time: 12:00

Conditions for opening tenders date: 25/02/2019local time: 12:00

Main activity:-other activity: kultur,bildung

Major organization : Goethe-institut E.V. ZENTRALE

Address : Dachauer Str. 122

Mnchen
533
Having a space you can call your own can be exciting, but sprucing it up to fit your taste and lifestyle can also be a tad arduous. It takes research, resource and persistence. To make this task a bit easier for you, here are a few basic guidelines on how you can decorate your own space.

Create your identity

The first, but probably hardest, thing to begin with is creating the overall scheme of your space. Scheme refers to the general concept that will hold all the interior elements together.

You can reflect your interest in your room's scheme, whether you want nature, travel or sports. A musician? Allot a place for that keyboard and make it a highlight piece of the room. A traveler? Find a scratch-off map to place on the wall so as guests enter, they can know the places you've been to. Having this general scheme can make decorating easier since you have already narrowed down your choices as to which elements to include.

Simplify

Horror vacui, or fear of empty spaces, is one of the most evident Filipino traits in today's culture. We always come up with a way to not leave even just one inch of space unused. We all have these figurines, events tokens, and picture frames which, when displayed together, create heavy contrasts and clashing forms.

What you can do is group these items and create seasonal displays. You may want to show your candles and scents during the gloomy season of July or the reds and bright ones during the holidays. Remember that those display shelves and tables aren't meant to be full, so it's best to keep your decor to a minimum.

Not only will you be able to declutter and free up your space, but you will also get reacquainted with the pieces you already have and decide which ones can still be used considering your general scheme.

Neutrals never go wrong

They are timeless.

Neutral colors are those not typically found in the color wheel because they include shades of black, white, beige, ivory, taupe and brown. At this time when tastes quickly evolve, it will be easier to keep up if you have a solid base. Think of the neutrals as your interior's foundation, layering muted tones and textures, with a timely pop of an accent color.

Use neutral colors in permanent items like the ceiling, walls, general floor finish, kitchen counter and even the cabinets. Semi-permanent pieces like a TV bench, side tables, sofa upholstery and bed frames are also recommended to be in a neutral color finish.

Soft finishes make the difference

You already have a strong base-now is the time to add in the accents. The little things that you often forget about like curtains, throw pillows, bed sheets and area rugs actually create a big difference.

Like the frames and figurines you show off in rotation, your soft finishes can be treated the same way as well. You may use a subtle blue rug and some pops of yellow during the gloomy season, or a few bright and sparkly pillow covers for the holidays. These pops of colors and prints on big neutral backgrounds will likely have an outcome that is tastefully done.

Do not rush

Do it slowly and carefully. Creating your dream space may take some time and a lot of patience. Always remember that you will be seeing and using this every day so go for value and things you know will last longer.

Invest on a few good pieces of furniture and fabrics. Take time to research. And at some point, be bold in your choices. After all, it is your space.

(References: www.homedit.com; pro.com; pixabay.com)

The author is a licensed architect specializing in architectural interiors. He recently participated in the CoLive/CoWork: Evolving the Interior Space; a design competition held in partnership between SoFA Design Institute and Goethe-institut.
534
Contract notice: design, editing and distribution of a newspaper supplement

The contractor takes over the editorial as well as the creative creation of the cultural magazine of the Goethe-institut "das goethe". the culture magazine is published twice a year. further details can be found in the specifications.

This contract is divided into lots: yes

Time limit for receipt of tenders or requests to participate: date: 11/02/2019local time: 14:00

Conditions for opening tenders date: 11/02/2019local time: 14:00information about authorised persons and opening procedure:

Entfllt

Main activity:-other activity: kultur, bildung

Major organization : Goethe-institut E. V.

Address : Dachauer Strae 122

Mnchen.
535
Tenders are invited for hardware procurement mobile detection devices for the inspection field service

Goethe-institut e.V. - zentrale 12.02.19published: 14.01.19

Award procedure: delivery services

Offer period: 04.02.2019

Major organization : LANDESHAUPTSTADT POTSDAM, BEREICH ZENTRALE DIENSTE

Address : 14469 Potsdam Brandenburg

Country :Germany
536
2018 GOING ON 2019 ART & FOODThey revelled in rubbish, sculpted scrap, recast castawaysa 2018 was the year artists recycled and rejigged refuse to create masterpieces that were displayed in art galleries and public spaces across the city, not merely to captivate but to caution.oWhen people see the sculptures created out of trash they have thrown, they are not only wowed but think about how they can reduce the amount of waste they generate,o says sculptor Ja- cob Jebaraj, who was part of several trash-to-art projects in the city.At the beginning of the year, Goethe-institut/Max Mueller Bhavan organised DAMnedArt, an awareness project, which saw 13 installations themed on river restorations. Displayed at the Lalit Kala Akademi, city-based artist Parvathi Nayar created a huge kolam for the exhibit, made out of trash collected from the banks of the Adyar river u empty bottles, discarded toothbrushes, bottle caps, and more. The installation, 'Invite/Refuse', was meant to be a stark reminder of the extent of damage caused to rivers.That was just the start for Nayar, who spent the better part of the year getting trash together to create statement pieces. After her Cooum kolam, she called out to people across the city, inviting them to send in all their blue and white trash to create a wave of art. She placed bins on the Alliance Francaise premises where people brought in bags of monochrome trash, which she then turned into a 135sqft installation, displayed at Veda Art Gallery.oThe project brought together contemporary aesthetics, trash collection and people across all walks of life to make art,o said Nayar, who was assisted by the voluntary beach clean-up crew Angels of Marina as well as eco-conscious apartment building association heads. The result was a giant wave based on 19th century Japanese artist Hokusai's woodblock but made of milk packets, cleaning liquid bottles, and restaurant food containers.oThe waves are a powerful image in this city, which was devastated by a tsunami in 2004. The city is now drowning in a tsunami of trash,o says Nayar.In November, artist S Potrasan went on an ECR beach cleaning drive to pick up booze bottles, which he then turned into art. The inhouse artist at DakshinaChitra now plans to conduct workshops in schools on decorating ceramic pieces with recycled glass.At the Integral Coach Factory (ICF) in Perambur, wheels, drill bits and nuts and bolts were turned into gods, goddesses and butterflies as more than a dozen artists came together to create magic with metal scrap, which was then displayed at the Rail Museum and on Konnur High Road. Chennai sculptors like B O Shailesh, Jebaraj, Benita Perciyal, A V Ilango, Shalini Biswajit, Ravindran, and Asma Menon were part of this project.Jebaraj says displaying scrap art in public spaces has created a greater awareness of the genre. oSchools and other institutes have approached me to create junk art installations at their premises,o says Jebaraj, adding that word is spreading to tier 2 cities as well. He has already conducted talks at engineering colleges on scrap sculpture, and is working on another for a school and a mall.oIt is amazing the things we can do with twisted, scrap metal. If I see scrap anywhere now, I see art,o says artist Thejomaye Menon, who worked on the ICF exhibits.
537
School Libraries Association and Goethe-institut Pakistan organised 'School Libraries Convention 2018' at a school here.

Over 200 library professionals and school heads participated in the event, said a press release issued here on Sunday.

A panel discussion on 'Creating hope and possibilities of learning for public school children through libraries' was also conducted with the panelists from USAID Pakistan Reading Project, Sindh Education Foundation, Public Private Partnership Project, School Education and Literacy Department, Government of Sindh, Zindagi Trust, Pakistan Space Science Education Center and Rotary Pakistan Literacy Mission.

The panelists stressed the need to come up with avenues and opportunities to bolster love for reading in students attending public schools.

The event concluded with a video message by International Association of School Librarianship (IASL)'s president 'Katy Manck'.

Furthermore, an MOU signing ceremony was also organised between SLA and Rotary Pakistan Literacy Mission.
538
Libraries are considered to be the heart of any academic institution including schools. To provide an opportunity to school librarians about knowing the emerging trends and ideas in the realm of school libraries, School Libraries Association and Goethe-institut Pakistan organized "School Libraries Convention 2018" at the Generation's School, South Campus, Karachi. Over 200 library professionals and school heads participated in the event.

The knowledge sharing day covered online sessions by international speakers from UK, USA, Australia and Qatar, including hands-on workshops from Pakistan-based facilitators.

A panel discussion on "Creating hope and possibilities of learning for public school children through libraries" was also conducted with the panelists from USAID Pakistan Reading Project, Sindh Education Foundation, Public Private Partnership Project, School Education and Literacy Department, Government of Sindh, Zindagi Trust, Pakistan Space Science Education Center and Rotary Pakistan Literacy Mission.

The panelists stressed the need to come up with avenues and opportunities to bolster love for reading in students attending public schools and do not deprive any child from having a library at their institution.

Furthermore, 21st century learning opportunities including STEAM education should also be considered for government school children to harness their creativity and curiosity. The panelists appreciated the idea of initiating a school libraries association and acknowledged its objectives and programs.

The event concluded with a video message by International Association of School Librarianship (IASL)'s president "Katy Manck". Furthermore, an MOU signing ceremony was also organized between SLA and Rotary Pakistan Literacy Mission.

School Libraries Association is a group of excited, dedicated and passionate school and university librarians, committed to initiate avenues and opportunities for improvement of school libraries across Pakistan.
539
Tenders are invited for support for the study "pre-integration of professional migrants"

Saxon state ministry of economic affairs, ... 17.01.19published: 20.12.18

Award procedure: services

Offer period: 25.01.2019

Major organization : Goethe-institut EV - ZENTRALE

Address : 80637 Mnchen Bayern
540
Tenders are invited for l 156 hofermhle, repair of the vaulted arch

Goethe - institut barcelona (german institute of ... 31.01.19verffentlicht: 20.12.18

Award procedure: construction services

Offer period: 08.01.2019

Major organization : REGIONALNIEDERLASSUNG NIEDERRHEIN

Address : 42579 Heiligenhaus Nordrhein-Westfalen

Country :Germany
541
Contract notice: Goethe-institut barcelona / 201812 - maintenance cleaning Goethe-institut barcelona

i. Subject of the invitation to tender the Goethe-institut barcelona needed for the object: Service building of the Goethe-institut barcelona, c / roger de flor 224, 08025 barcelona, ug, Ground floor, 1st + 2nd og, A service provider for i. Maintenance cleaning (lot 1) the cleaning serves to maintain the substance and keep clean the objects to be cleaned. The cleaning should take place monday to friday between 6.00 and 14.00 o~clock and saturdays from 6.00 to 11.00 o~clock, So that the business operation is impaired as little as possible. Cleaning is not required on sundays, Public holidays in barcelona and during the closure of the institute. The property has three floors: A floor with offices, A floor with classrooms and seminar rooms, The ground floor with cafeteria, Library and function room. The basement has toilets and storage rooms. Details about the service building can be found in the description of services with systems. The specified services must always be professionally carried out by the contractor and carried out so that a perfect level of cleanliness is achieved. When cleaning, The recognized rules of application technology must be observed. The service should be provided in eleven months per year, As the institute is closed for one month in the summer.
542
Tenders are invited for construction of three apartment buildings in erftstadt - liblar - general contractor service

Goethe-institut e.V. - zentrale 28.01.19published: 19.12.18

Award procedure: construction services

Offer period: 06.03.2019

Major organization : STADT ERFTSTADT

Address : 50374 Erftstadt Nordrhein-Westfalen

Country :Germany.
543
It was an unusual musical evening at the Tollygunge Club recently as the Border Movement Lounge, an electronic music performance clubbed with video art, wowed the members who were present to enjoy the show. Border Movement Lounge, in association with the Goethe-institut/Max Mueller Bhavan, is a platform to showcase established and upcoming artistes and producers of electronic music from across South Asia and Germany.The Border Movement Lounge is an informal event format that fosters an interactive culture of electronic music performance, as well as a well-rounded appreciation from the local music community. Each edition of Border Movement Lounge focuses on partnering acts with local talent, so this edition of the show had acts by Golden Disko Ship (Berlin, Germany), Kini Rao (Mumbai, India) and Plastic Parvati (Kolkata, India).The first performance of the evening was by Plastic Parvati. She rendered her original compositions like Straight Out Of Kasba, Self Control, Let's Watch The Stars Tonight and Falling Down. This was followed by performances by the Golden Disko Ship and Kini Rao. Each of the acts was supported by psychedelic video arts on a giant LED screen.We spotted actress Aparajita Ghosh enjoying herself at the show. She said, oI attended this type of a show for the first time and found it really interesting and entertaining. I loved the idea of collaboration between two countries, which actually helped us in understanding the different cultures. The crowd was good and the visuals were mesmerising.
544
Tenders are invited for Relocation of the headquarters of the Goethe-institut

Award procedure: Services

Offer period: 01.02.2019

Major organization : Goethe-institut EV - ZENTRALE

Address : 80637 Mnchen Bayern.
545
German artists perform at Goethe-institut in Riyadh on Tuesday night. (Photo/Supplied)

RIYADH: German musicians on tour in Saudi Arabia said they were "astonished" by the response to their concerts.

The artists played six gigs over 10 days at multiple venues.

On Tuesday evening in Riyadh the Goethe-institut hosted Birgit Erichson and Vasil Laghidze, who performed Schubert's "Winter Journey."

The lyrics, by Wilhelm ME-ller, were recited in German by Claudia Ziegeler and -- in a world premiere -- in Arabic by the Saudi poet Dr. Adel Khamees Alzhrani.

"We are astonished at how the audience in Riyadh and Jeddah responded," said pianist Laghidze. "We got overwhelming support from music lovers. The audience here is very enthusiastic."

On Monday German Ambassador Jorg Ranau hosted a concert at his residence in the diplomatic quarter.

Laghidze and cellist Erichson were joined by violinist Ulrich Beetz, with the trio delighting a national and international gathering with music from Haydn, Schubert and Dvorak.

An embassy press officer told Arab News the musicians were well-received amid "thunderous applause."

The French Consul General El-Mostafa Mihraje hosted the trio's performance of an all-Debussy concert, including the famous Clair de Lune, played under the stars.

Other venues for the visiting artists included the German diplomatic missions in Riyadh and Jeddah, the French Consulate General in Jeddah and the King Abdullah University of Science and Technology, a research institute in Thuwal.
546
The minister of Culture Carolina Cerqueira said memorandum of scientific technical understanding in the field of museum signed Monday by the National Department of Museums, the Prussian Cultural Heritage Foundation and the Goethe-institut boosts the Angolan museum network in modernisation, dissemination and preservation of the national collection.

The memorandum is aimed at promoting research on the ethnological and historical objects of Angola.

The document also promote the project management of collections of the National Museum of Anthropology of Angola and the Museum of Ethnology of Berlin.

The Cooperation will be promoted and moderated by the National Department of Museums and the Goethe-institut Angola.

The institutions should contribute equally to the implementation of the areas and objectives set out in the memorandum of understanding.

Both institutions pledge to provide the necessary networks and platforms to link historical collections with contemporary art and society both in Angola and Germany.

In an audience granted to the German delegation, led by the ambassador Dirk Lolke, the Culture minister stressed the role of the protocol in preservation and dissemination of the potential of the collection of Angolan museum.

The minister spoke of the programme of cultural agenda with the help of Ghote Institute, under the cultural agenda of the Biennial of Peace to kick off in 2019.

In turn, the German diplomat expressed his country's availability and the German cultural institutions to cooperate with Angola in various fields linked to the modernisation of Angolan museums.

Dirk Lolke said that his country is and will be open to the promotion and dissemination of Angolan culture with exhibitions in local institutions, as well as the exchange of experience and cultural exchange.
547
 A contemporary German Dance Production titled "In The Skin Of The Other" was staged on November 30 at 7 pm at the Experimental Theatre Hall, BSA (Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy), Segunbagicha in the city.

Goethe-institut Bangladesh, in collaboration with the Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy, invited this German Dance Production as a part of the Contemporary Dance Festival 2018, organised under the "Young Choreographers' Platform 2018" project.

Dr. Kirsten Hackenbroch, Director, Goethe-institut Bangladesh welcomed the attending audience and introduced the German-based Togolese choreographer Kossi Sebastien Aholou-Wokawui and his co-dancer friend Tomas Bunger, who is also the artistic director of the "Young Choreographers' Platform 2018" project, initiated by Goethe-institut Bangladesh. Dr. Hackenbroch also reiterated her gratitude to Liakat Ali Lucky, Director General of BSA for his outstanding support for the Young Choreographers' Platform project and providing scope for artistic expression to the young talents on stage.

Later, Liakat Ali Lucky is his speech, highlighted the successful co-organisation of different events by the BSA and Goethe-institut, in recent years and expressed his interest, to reorganise the just concluded "Contemporary Dance Festival" in the first quarter of 2019.

The German-based Togolese choreographer Kossi Sebastien Aholou-Wokawui was invited for the first time to present a German Dance Production in Bangladesh. "In The Skin Of The Other" is choreographed by Kossi Sebastien Aholou-Wokawui, and presented on stage by the choreographer himself along with the noted German choreographer and dancer Tomas Bunger. The performance depicts a transcultural dance dialogue, a choreographic initiation into the culture of the other that attempts to understand life through dance.
548
On Wednesday, Kolkata got a sneak peek not just into the world of a passionate photographer, but also a father and daughter in which the camera is a source of both connection and friction. The 55-minute documentary, Raghu Rai: An Unframed Portrait, on the revered photographer Raghu Rai, was screened at the Goethe-institut/Max Mueller Bhavan as part of their Docu-Forum segment. Directed by his 26-year-old daughter, Avani Rai, the docu was appreciated by all and sundry. After the screening, there was a discussion between the father-daughter duo moderated by author and critic Anjum Katyal. Here are some of the highlights from that sessionaI see a character as nasty, strange and passionate. There is an expression in Hindi when someone goes mad, kehte hai yeh 'sarak' gaya hai. So, I think I am that sarka hua person. I can't sit in a normal and peaceful way in any given situation because I think I have become an explorer. Also, Mother Teresa was one of the biggest influences in my life. Whenever I met Mother, she would be both warm and loving. She would hold your hand but not look at you; she would look into you and that used to scare me, but still I used to love it. I have learnt from Mother how to observe and learn quietly and applied it to my photographs.I was really scared. All I cared about was papa ko bachana hai since papa would go near the scene of violence with his camera at a time stones were being pelted. He would just not listen to any of us. There are scenes in the documentary where I can be seen shouting 'papa mat jao aage, mat jao. Please come back.' Even though stones were pelted from a distance, it would hit you. So there was a part in that sequence where I didn't know whether the camera was rolling or not. I was panicking and going all over the place.You come across those who are transparent, honest and caring, for instance people like Mother Teresa; you also meet people on the streets, who are straight and open. When you see them, you see the feelings in their eyes. So, darshan is to see somebody in one's entirety. It's just more than a glance; you connect with every vibration, every feeling and expression and also receive and perceive the same vibrations with the physical aspect of the person. It takes place by connecting your eyes with the heart.When there is a point of view, when I document what I have witnessed in Kashmir, when I tell the stories of my father's meetings with Indira Gandhi or Mother Teresa, it's not propaganda. Propaganda is in real cinema that you see in Bollywood and when government gets involved in filmmaking. My personal view and my personal experience with the victims of violence is not propaganda. There are no victories in war, there are only victims. Someone dying or someone losing their family member can never be propaganda; I am saying this from my firsthand experience.Sometimes, he was very loving, sometimes very harsh. There would also be times that I would tell him that repeat the stories you were telling that day, because I wanted to reshoot the moment in a better environment. And he would tell me, 'I am not a professional actor'. I cannot repeat myself with that same excitement or enthusiasm. My father is a one-man army. During the shoot, I would have a sound guy, a cameraman with me, but sometimes when I would wake up late, my father would just disappear into his own world. So, to get him lapelled, shoot the right angles and get the right frame was of course a tough task.I'm very disciplined when it comes to photography. It's like walking through fire and purifying yourself to achieve something. That is the real journey.Most of the photographs shown in the documentary are black and white, barring a few. I think, for a viewer, it becomes far easier to view and understand a black-and-white picture than a coloured one. Coloured pictures look so jarring and dramatic that they come and disappear. In this digital age, people try to make pictures look extra colourful. It really annoys me. Real photographs are the ones that are printed on paper and you hold them physically and see them, not the ones that we see through a digital medium.I want this film to be remembered as an honest one. It should be remembered as a daughter talking about the father and the father talking about his perception of India.
549
If African filmmakers believed more in their own stories, and had more funding, cinema on the continent could be on the brink of a golden age

Africa's film industry is set to play a key role in creating new jobs in Africa as the continent prepares for massive demographic waves. This is according to a recently released report, Framing the Shot - Key Trends in African Film 2018 by Dayo Ogunyemi's Lagos-based production house 234 Media, in partnership with the Goethe-institut and with support from the German Federal Foreign Office. Within a generation, the report says, Africa will have the world's largest workforce, while it will have more than a third of the world's population by 2100.

According to the analysis, the two largest film industries in Africa currently contribute a total of $1 billion to the continent's annual GDP. Nigerian film generates close to one million jobs, while the South African industry generates over 21,600. Box-office revenues reached $12 million for Nigeria last year, with a third of the total going to local films. South Africa boasted a significantly larger revenue at $89.6 million for the same period, but with only 3.8% going to South African productions.

"Exhibition infrastructure, as evidenced by cinema screen penetration ratios, is low in every country in Africa," write the authors of the report. "This places a ceiling on what film releases can earn in domestic cinemas... If Africa were to follow China's example and invest extensively in cinema infrastructure... annual box-office revenues across Africa could rise to $1.5 - $2 billion; with Nigeria and South Africa accounting for as much as $500 million."

But investments are still falling short, and African filmmakers face numerous challenges in financing and distributing their productions. For producer Steven Markovitz - whose film A Kasha was selected for the 2018 Venice International Film Festival (August 28 - September 9), one of the main challenges for African producers is getting funders from established industries such as South Africa's to co-produce films from other countries. "It's so important that we support each other on the continent," he commented.

For Markovitz, the film industry has greatly evolved in Africa over the past few years: "We are making better films and there is more interest in African films internationally. We need to be making more films!" The producer also believes support for great African projects is not always at hand. "There needs to be more support for African films," he told Africa in Fact. "There is a new generation of filmmakers who are starting to get noticed. With the right support, I am feeling optimistic."

A Kasha is a brave example of a film made in spite of countless obstacles. A truly independent production, it was shot in a war zone, in Sudan. Funding - from the Doha Film Institute, then Arab Fund For Arts and Culture, and the Berlinale's World Cinema Fund - was obtained just before the shoot began. "(Director) Hajooj Kuka's tenacity against many very difficult obstacles is what pulled the film over the line," said Markovitz. "The film was made with very supportive partners and we now hope, after Venice, it will travel far and wide."

In certain African countries with smaller film industries, where production receives meagre government support, it takes incredibly resilient teams to make a movie, let alone a blockbuster. This is the case of the mega-hit, Supa Modo, directed by Kenya's Likarion Wainaina. One of the few African films selected for the 2018 Berlin Film Festival in February, Supa Modo went on to open the Nairobi Film Festival. Wainaina worked odd jobs in the film industry for years and funded Supa Modo by saving every penny from his pay cheque. The son of a single mother, who raised him in Kenya after breaking up with his father in Russia, Wainaina now plans to direct African sci-fi films, a genre known as "African futurism".

For Spanish newspaper El Pais, Supa Modo is testimony that Africa is more than "corruption and poverty". The film tells the story of Jo, "a witty nine-year-old terminally ill girl (who) is taken back to her rural village to live out the rest of her short life". Jo wants to be a superhero, and her whole village helps to make her dream come true. Supa Modo was an unprecedented box office success in Kenya and won numerous international awards.

Another country where filmmakers face huge barriers at the time of developing their projects is Togo. Producers who have been able to thrive in this hostile environment are now hopeful after the government's recent launch of a local film week, which included a screenwriting residency. This nod from the authorities was underlined by a statement from Togo's Minister of Culture, Guy Madje Lorenzo: "Our wish is that the film industry be in Togo, as in other places, an activity of collective creativity at its best, a particularly promising sector of activity, providing innovative jobs with decent pay."

Second only to India's Bollywood in terms of number of films produced per year, Nigeria's Nollywood has struggled to make its films more attractive to international audiences. A satirical comedy, Green White Green, recently acquired by Netflix, attempts to bridge that gap. While its plot and style do not thoroughly escape the "cheesiness" Nollywood audiences know and love, it is a film with higher artistic aims, both in its concept and its execution. While Nollywood's trademark acting styles and stories will continue to have a large audience in Nigeria, the emergence of films like this, which can also reach a broader international audience, is certainly good news for the local film industry.

At the Durban Film Mart this year, feature and documentary projects from all over Africa - including several from under-represented film industries - received awards from top European funds and markets. The awards, including several in cash, went to projects from Mozambique, Niger, Cape Verde, Zimbabwe, Benin and South Africa. Cash awards are useful, but the media exposure and connections producers can secure at Durban are often more valuable. Meanwhile, in early September, Venice was set to host African and Arab world filmmakers at the Final Cut workshop, which offers training and awards for films in the post-production stage. The work-in-progress projects selected for this year's edition include, among others, a fiction film co-produced by Lesotho and Germany, Mother, I am suffocating, This is My Last Film About You, and a documentary co-produced by France, Chad, and Germany, The Waiting Bench.

A Kasha, is a Final Cut alumnus. The film won two awards, the Biennale prize and a subtitling services award, at the 2017 edition. "Final Cut was great for the film to get feedback on the rough cut and raise its profile with the international film community," Markovitz told Africa in Fact. The film, which portrays a love story against the backdrop of Sudan's civil war, will now compete for the festival's coveted Critics' Week audience award.

The Venice Film Festival could provide participating African producers with useful opportunities to reach much-needed European financing and distribution. Other films that received Final Cut awards last year included Egyptian documentary Dream Away, Tangier-set Joint Possession/Indivision, and South Africa´s The Harvesters. A South African film, The Wound - a production of Urucu Media, one of the most active and successful film companies in the region - was an acclaimed participant at a previous edition.

African film continues to face a number of problems, according to Elias Ribeiro, who heads up Urucu Media. "I find that South Africans, and Africans in general, sometimes do not have faith in their own stories," he told me when I had the opportunity to interview him in Rio de Janeiro in 2015. "Many of them are trying to replicate foreign film models, such as Hollywood's. Even the government funds look for traditional Hollywood-style screenwriting... The people who run (the top international film) funds often comment that they get very few projects from Africa and they want more."

Ribeiro's job as a producer was to "bridge that gap between the people who have these incredible stories about these unique cultures and communities and the people who have the power to make films a reality," he told me then. Since then, Ribeiro, arguably the most active film producer on the continent, has created a vibrant African screenwriting residency called Realness, which is now in its third edition.

With 130 applicants for its 2018 edition, Realness selected only a handful to participate in six intensive weeks of training and mentoring. After the residency, the projects are presented at the prestigious Durban Film Mart. Markets and festivals that collaborate with Realness include EAVE Producers Workshop, France's La Fabrique Cinéma, Torino Film Lab, and Toronto Talent Lab. While African filmmakers generally have to go to European festivals and markets to receive top-quality training and exposure, Realness has brought that to African soil.

The participating filmmakers heralded "an important and exciting new wave of African storytelling by Africans for Africans and the world," said UK literary agent David Kayser, a member of the Realness 2018 selection panel. "The strength of the projects, and the talent driving them, will benefit hugely from the expertise, exposure and incubation that Realness offers and I look forward to seeing how they mature."

Realness has helped to fully develop a number of projects for the international financing market, Ribeiro says. But the African film industry lacks "creative producers who understand development and international financing and distribution, and can advance the projects forward."

Ribeiro's company picks one project from every Realness batch per year to develop inhouse. "Fifteen projects from 12 countries have participated in Realness. The residency has a strong focus on women filmmakers, and 50% of the participants have been women of colour," he comments.

But, he added, projects that were not picked up by Urucu didn't progress. To address the problem, Ribeiro and his partners aim to create a producers' training programme to be run in cooperation with EAVE, which already runs two such programmes in Latin America and Asia. Ribeiro, a Brazilian transplant to South Africa, has a vision for African film that many local producers probably lack, perhaps in part because his country of origin has one of the world's most solid systems for funding national films.

"African film is still problematic because there are very few financial instruments to develop content, let alone finance a production," Ribeiro told Africa in Fact. He decried the fact that producers still have to rely on seeking European co-producers and funds that support projects from developing nations.

Ribeiro was recently appointed director of the Cape Town Film Market, one of Africa's most established venues for making film-production deals. The 2018 edition, which takes place in October, will be the first under Ribeiro's direction. "I would like the Cape Town Film Market to become a space where policymakers gather to look at best practices in different territories, to analyse what is working and how it was implemented. With a coordinated effort, new financing instruments for the global south could emerge," he told Africa in Fact.

In his vision, producers in Africa and Latin America could partner to create "something similar to the European Union's Media Programme", which supports film production across European borders. Meanwhile, BRICS countries could develop their own version of the European Council's Eurimages, which provides funding for co-productions and fosters cooperation among film professionals from different member nations. As Ribeiro sees it, if African filmmakers believe their own stories more, and more funders understand their economic potential, African filmmaking could be on the brink of a golden age.
550

Tenders are invited for project management interreg project creative ports

Goethe-institut finland 18.12.18published: 27.11.18

Award procedure: services

Offer period: 18.12.2018

Major organization : Goethe-institut FINNLAND

Address : 00100 Helsinki Bayern.
551
Dedicated to the 70th anniversary of Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the opening ceremony of the 4th edition of Human Rights through Cinematography Film Festival was held at Pakistan National Council of Arts, (PNCA) Islamabad on Sunday.

Running from 25 November to 10 December, the film festival is led by European Union (EU) and the United Nations Pakistan in partnership with a large number of member states of the EU, the UN, Pakistan Institute for Parliamentary Services, The Centaurus Cineplex, and educational and cultural institutions.

The opening ceremony featured the screening of 'Freedom for the Wolf,' an epic investigation into what the filmmaker Rupert Russel terms as 'illiberal democracies' and how a new generation of elected leaders are dismantling freedom and democracies as we know it.

Afterwards, Member of National Assembly Maleeka Bokhari, academic and journalist Harris Khalique, and human rights activist Marvi Sirmed participated in a panel discussion moderated by Waqas Rafique, Communication Officer at the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations.

The festival presents 27 award winning documentaries on human rights issues from around the world, such as freedom of expression, gender equality, access to justice, minority rights and death penalty.

The screenings will be held simultaneously in nine cities of Pakistan, comprising Gujrat, Lahore, Rawalpindi, Multan, Islamabad, Karachi, Peshawar, Charsada and Quetta. Screening venues include universities, embassies, Pakistan Institute for Parliamentary Services, and cultural spaces such as Goethe-institut, PNCA, Pakistan Chowk Community Centre and OLOMOPOLO Media. This year, for the first time, the festival will also have screenings at the Centaurus Cineplex with an opening on November 29. The screenings are open to the public.

The festival aims to provide a window to universal human rights challenges to the Pakistani public in general and young audiences in particular and urge them to reflect on solutions. An online campaign to generate debate is also launched by the organisers and can be followed under the hashtag HRTC2018

Jean-Francois Cautain, Ambassador of the European Union to Pakistan said: 'Arts and Culture in general and documentary films in particular, are increasingly playing an important role for understanding the world and its peoples. The Human Rights through Cinematography Festival, especially with the screenings in universities, is an excellent tool to raise awareness about the different facets of Human Rights and to engage students in constructive debates. The EU stands firm with Pakistan in its efforts for the promotion of Human Rights with special focus on gender equality, freedom of religion and belief, rule of law, access to justice and freedom of expression'.

Jamal Shah, Director General PNCA said: 'The magic of cinema can engage you into interesting dialogue and transport you into many different worlds. Cinema, both narrative and documentary, is probably the most accessible and effective vehicle for promoting social change in the world because it could address topical human rights issues around the world'.
552
Goethe-institut Bangladesh, in cooperation with the Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy staged the theatre production, "Oh My Sweet Land" on November 12 at the Experimental Hall premises of Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy, Segunbagicha in the city.

The play was a one-hour act and a one-woman show based on the testimony that the performing artist and writer Corinne Jaber, and director Amir Nizar Zuabi, gathered in the overcrowded refugee camps of Lebanon and Jordan. It depicts the state of the humanitarian crisis in Syria through the eyes of a half-Syrian, Paris-dwelling woman. The woman flees to the Middle East in pursue of her refugee activist lover, Ashraf, who has disappeared. During her search she encounters the abandoned Syrians who have become silent bearers of the cruelty of the war.

Corinne Jaber and Amir Nizar Zuabi intended to exhibit the perseverance of all those who had to flee the country and those who had to stay behind. The refugees' only remaining hope was god and Jaber explains: "The Syrians are a nation completely abandoned by the rest of the world and they know it. Nobody else is listening." This production remains to be a must see for anyone craving a better grasp of the Syrian conflict and the human landscape surrounding it.

While recounting her quest-story onstage, she prepares and cooks kubah, a traditional Syrian dish, as if to calm her agitation with the muscle memory of this ritual, but intimations of atrocity start to gather around the slap of raw meat and the sizzle of boiling oil. Her character announced each destination that she encountered in her desperate search, and in this way we are transported from Paris to Lebanon, Jordan and Syria. Her vocal range allows her to bring to life men and women, as well as communities and street scenes, with ease. In Jaber's words, the play is important because: "it talks about the world we live in, right now, at this very moment, in a place not very far away."
553
Tenders are invited for connection video conferencing

Goethe-institut e.V. - zentrale 07.12.18published: 21.11.18

Award procedure: services

Offer period: 07.12.2018

Major organization : Goethe-institut EV - ZENTRALE

Address : 80637 Mnchen Bayern

Country :Germany

Notice type : Tender Notice

Open date : 2018-12-07.
554
Tenders are invited for event management cultural symposium weimar

Goethe-institut e.V. - zentrale 31.12.18published: 21.11.18

Award procedure: services

Offer period: 31.12.2018

Major organization : Goethe-institut EV - ZENTRALE

Address : 10189 Berlin

Country :Germany

Notice type : Tender Notice

Open date : 2018-12-31.
555
Artists around Europe have spent almost a year focusing on how free people living in European cities actually are, a project that is culminating in Cyprus this coming weekend with a video that has been staged in a refugee camp.

A total of 42 Goethe-instituts have been grappling with the concept of freedom at a time when populist and nationalist parties are increasingly gaining ground, an initiative which aspired to allow dialogue and forge new networks between the instituts/cities involved.

"Europe is changing. EU-scepticism, while most glaringly epitomised by the Brexit referendum, is not limited to Great Britain. Europe faces challenges at many levels and is looking for answers," a press release said.

"The aim of the Freiraum (Free Space) project is to assess the state of freedom in Europe's cities. What are the issues that come up when residents, sociologists and creative artists think about the concept of 'freedom' in very local terms? What problems are observable in a city?" it added.

Collectively, each participating Goethe-institut worked with several local partners -- such as theatres or arts centres, NGOs, universities, associations, initiatives -- on developing questions about freedom. The Goethe-institut Nicosia and its partner the ARTos foundation were paired with the Goethe-institut Rome and its partner daSud.

Working with partners and outside experts, Nicosia drew up a question in September last year: "Do we have access to the 'right' education to maintain a sustainable and just economy and to really live our economic independence? Freedom is contingent on economic independence, which in turn is contingent on education. The poor cannot be free."

"The biggest challenge of our society today is the doubt of values and most importantly the inability to act towards those values, especially in relation to justice and solidarity. We're not aware about what is happening right next to us anymore, but we know and discuss irrelevant things about things that happen on the other side of our planet. Our societies are getting old and the young ones have lost hope and are bouncing between survival and economic sustainability, so that they can consume "goods" like the rest of the western societies. This makes the young vulnerable to easy money and ephemeral choices," said Achilleas Kentonis of the Artos Arts Foundation.

At the same time, Rome worked on a question that focused on the city's struggle with organised crime. In Rome, not only does the Mafia control the local economy, but in many places it even takes on some of the welfare responsibilities of the State. This is how the Goethe-institut in Rome partnered with the anti-mafia association daSud and made use of experiences in some outlying areas to promote sustainable urban development. In particular, their question was: How can grassroots democratic methods of urban development impact neighbourhoods plagued by the Mafia and organised crime?

In both cases, focus was placed on supporting a socially protected and worthwhile future for young people with both partners working to bring young and old closer together, to learn new skills and share experiences through performances, exhibitions, workshops, concerts and public space installations.

"We fuel societies with angrier, more insecure and marginalised youth and give them temporal solutions because we do not have the time to plan and get them engaged. The Freiraum project gave us the "time" to think and get engaged," Kentonis said.

Using the Strovolos III refugee camp in Nicosia as a central location to work on, Saturday's presentation will reveal the work that has been done over the past months including a graffiti series, a 360 degree video and an app.

"Walls (hence the use of graffiti), both in Nicosia and in Rome and in many other parts of Europe, represent a limit to freedom, walls are symbols of divisions and violations of rights, but are also spaces of expression and communication and we can transform them into resources. The augmented reality technology and a 360 degree video has been employed to blend the virtual and the real world and to provide information to young people in a new and attractive way while the app was created to make the artistic project actions accessible to everyone," the Goethe-institut said.

"Our work at the Strovolos III refugee camp was a collective work because we always open up challenges for synergies and sharing of vision... We were looking for a place in any refugee camp because they represent a micro-society, with a surprising isolated plurality, and less privileged youngsters. Eventually, after hard work and the collaboration of the municipality of the Strovolos we moved in and started interacting with the local population via our researchers and university students. The local population consists off old people, including its first residents from 44 years ago, immigrants that arrived in Cyprus during the last decade and less privileged people form Cyprus and other EU countries that could not afford the rent elsewhere," explained Kentonis.

"For the last past months, we have been working in silence and in a low profile manner to try and get more 'players' involved in the project and secure its sustainability," he added.

While freedom is usually taken for granted, the Freiraum project challenged those taking part to look at it in a new light. "It gave the opportunity to each city to redefine this issue in a bottom up approach. This, for me, was good and it was over-intellectualised, so it could have been lost within words and fancy organisations, but I'm grateful that it all happened. We were ready, we had the right teams and the right resources and Freiraum came in to add to and upgrade our efforts, after all, the doubt of values and the inability to act towards those values especially in relation to justice and solidarity, is a concern of all of us," concluded Kentonis.
556
Amid misguided assertions and the timing of reports about the offering of elective Korean language class in selected public schools, the Department of Education (DepEd) emphasizes that this program is in no way intended to and shall not replace the Filipino subject in the basic education curriculum.

The study of the Korean language is elective and not part of the core subjects of around 700 learners in 10 selected junior high schools (JHS) in the National Capital Region. Aside from offering Korean language class, DepEd currently implements five Special Program in Foreign Language (SPFL) classes in Spanish, French, German, Chinese, and Japanese in all public schools.

Secretary Leonor Magtolis Briones has maintained that the subject Filipino remain to be among the core subjects in basic education, while the teaching of Panitikan in the Filipino subject serves as a springboard for discussion of grammar lessons and a way of strengthening the Filipino identity and culture. Additionally, Filipino continues to be the medium of instruction for Araling Panlipunan and Edukasyon sa Pagpapakatao. Aside from Filipino, the Mother Tongue-Based Multilingual Education (MTB-MLE) is also being implemented in Kindergarten, Grades 1, 2, and 3 in all public schools.

The Education chief consistently underscored the importance of history, culture and the arts in understanding, appreciating, and preserving the soul of Filipinos as a people. Thus, the Department continuously strengthens the teaching and learning of Filipino as part of the K to 12 Program.

Meanwhile, the inclusion of the Korean language in DepEds SPFL was formalized back in June 2017 under a memorandum of agreement (MOA) between the Philippines and South Korea.

As early as school year 2009-2010, the Department has already recognized the need to develop the foreign language skills of learners amid the increasing impact of globalization. SPFL is one of the six special programs being offered by the Department to cater to multiple intelligences of the learners and to help equip them with the necessary skills to meaningfully engage in a linguistically and culturally diverse world.

SPFL is open to Grades 7 to 10 learners who have demonstrated competence in Filipino and English, and are interested in and capable of learning another foreign language.

DepEd has partnered with the Korean Cultural Center, Embassy of Spain, Spanish Agency for International Development Cooperation Filipinas, Instituto Cervantes, Japan Foundation, the Embassy of France, Goethe-institut Philippinen, and Confucius Institute-Angeles University Foundation in the conduct of capacity building activities for SPFL teachers.

The Department encourages the contribution of informed and fact-based opinions to the discussion instead of the proliferation of conclusions that sow seeds of confusion and disinformation.
557
Tenders are invited for Provision of Maintenance commvault

Award procedure: Information technology

Offer period: 06.12.2018

Major organization : Goethe-institut EV - ZENTRALE

Address : 80637 Mnchen Bayern

Country :Germany

Notice type : Tender Notice

Open date : 2018-12-06
558
Tenders are invited for Provision of maintenance veeam

Award procedure: Information technology

Offer period: 06.12.2018

Major organization : Goethe-institut EV - ZENTRALE

Address : 80637 Mnchen Bayern

Country :Germany

Notice type : Tender Notice

Open date : 2018-12-06
559
The play is based on testimonies gathered from the overcrowded refugee camps of Lebanon and Jordan by performing artist and writer Corinne Jaber, and director Amir Nizar Zuabi. It depicts the state of the humanitarian crisis in Syria through the eyes of a half-Syrian woman who lives in Paris

One-act play 'Oh My Sweet Land,' featuring just one actor, was staged at the experimental theatre hall of Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy on Monday evening.

The initiative to stage the play was taken by Goethe-institut Bangladesh in cooperation with Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy.

The play is based on testimonies gathered from the overcrowded refugee camps of Lebanon and Jordan by performing artist and writer Corinne Jaber, and director Amir Nizar Zuabi. It depicts the state of the humanitarian crisis in Syria through the eyes of a half-Syrian woman who lives in Paris.

According to the plot, the woman travels to the Middle East in pursuit of her refugee activist lover, Ashraf, who has disappeared. During her search, she encounters the abandoned Syrians who have become silent bearers of the cruelty of the war.

Corinne and Amir intended to exhibit the perseverance of all those who had to flee the country, and those who had to stay behind. The refugees' only remaining hope was God. During her performance, Jaber said: 'The Syrians are in a nation completely abandoned by the rest of the world, and they know it. Nobody else is listening.'

While recounting her quest-story onstage, she prepares and cooks kubah, a traditional Syrian dish. The cooking seems to calm her agitation with the muscle memory of this ritual. However, intimations of atrocity start to gather around the slap of raw meat and the sizzle of boiling oil.

Her character announced each destination that she encountered in her desperate search, and in this way, the audience were transported from Paris to Lebanon, Jordan and Syria. Her vocal range allows her to bring to life men and women, as well as communities and street scenes, with ease.

The play ends with the actor leaving open the door of her refrigerator, which shows stacks of red meat piled in the shelves inside. Corinne confirmed to Dhaka Tribune Showtime, that this particular act at the ending was meant to signify the visceral state of some of the victims of the Syrian war. Even if the recollections of their story may one day stop, the bodies of the victims have reached such a pitiable state, that comparisons with meat about to be cooked is not too far-fetched.

In Corinne's words, the play is important because 'it talks about the world we live in, right now, at this very moment, in a place not very far away.'

In the question answer session following her performance, Corinne said: 'To imagine that theatre will change anything is just a silly dream...but at least for a moment people have the possibility to be aware of something for a small second.'

For several years now, Corinne has been touring all over the world performing 'Oh My Sweet Land.'

She is a German-Syrian theatre artist based between Paris and London. She started her career performing in Peter Brook's 'Mahabharata.' For her performance in 'Beast on the moon,' she received the Moliere Prize for best actress in France.

Since then, she has been performing as an actor in many plays, both in English and French, as well as directing and writing plays regularly. She worked with Afghan actors in and out of Afghanistan for many years, and their collaboration lead to an adaptation of 'Comedy of Errors' at the Globe Theatre in London. She is currently beginning a series of workshops on her most recent play 'The Small Things,' a play on the partition of India and Pakistan, and the role UK played in separating the two nations.

The technical direction and lighting design for 'Oh My Sweet Land' was by Nicolas Chorier.
560
The Philippine Overseas Employment Administration (POEA) on Sunday warned overseas jobs applicants to be wary of language training centers that promise sure employment upon completion of a language course.

The POEA issued the warning following reports that some training centers have been posting social-media advertisements promising enrollees with jobs in South Korea, Japan and Germany.

The agency said the language training centers have no license or authority to recruit workers, and they are prohibited from advertising overseas job vacancies.

'Training centers offering language courses flourished after the three countries started hiring Filipino workers proficient in their respective languages,' the POEA said.

The agency said applicants for factory jobs in South Korea under the employment permit system have to pass the Test on Proficiency in Korean (Topik).

'Topik, however, is not a guarantee that the worker will get immediate employment in Korea. Those who pass the Korean language test must also hurdle the skills test and selection by a Korean employer,' it added.

Meanwhile, under the Philippines-Japan Economic Partnership Labor Agreement, the POEA said nurses and care workers are required to undertake the six-month preparatory Japanese Language Training.

'The language skills institute of the Technical [Education] and Skills Development Authority conducts the language training for free. Candidates will undergo another six-month language training in Japan,' it said.

For Germany, the POEA said Germany's Triple Win Project has been recruiting Filipino nurses who have prior knowledge of the German language or are willing to undergo language training in the Philippines to attain B1 language proficiency level in accordance with the common Europe Framework of Reference Languages.

'The Goethe-institut and Berlitz Language Center are the only authorized training entities for the Triple Win Project,' the POEA said.
561
Contract award notice: Framework contracts for printing services (germany-munich: Printed matter and related products)

the aim of this award is to provide the Goethe-institut~s service providers with framework contracts for print services, From which print media can be called up both on an ad hoc basis and on pre-fixed dates. The subject of the contract is thus the production of printed matter as well as its further processing and delivery by qualified printing service providers. The allocation takes place product-related in 4 lots: Lot 1: Correspondence and administration lot 2: Brochures, Information folders lot 3: Flyers, Invitation and greeting cards lot 4: Business cards a detailed description of the required services can be found in the annexes to this letter, In particular the respective appendix a.2.1-a.2.4 price sheet and appendix a.1, Specifications.

Number of tenders received: 5

(note: Other contractors detail is available in attached document)

Contractor name : ULENSPIEGEL DRUCK GMBH & CO. KG

Contractor address : Ulenspiegel Druck Gmbh & Co. Kg

Andechs

Implementing agency : Goethe-institut E. V. Zentrale

Dachauer Str. 122

Mnchen.
562
Cleaning, cooking and caring -- once the premise of the stereotypical housewife -- is now often outsourced to immigrants from the Philippines, Sri Lanka and Indonesia. For many families on the island, this live-in or twice-weekly housemaid has become the mainstay of an ordered home. Making the meals, tidying the house, getting the kids ready for school -- all these are tasks which now fall to the help, a woman who has travelled halfway round the world; supporting your family in order to support her own. But have you ever stopped to reflect on what makes a life worth living for the many home-help emigres both here in Cyprus and across the globe?

The Goethe-institut Cyprus, in collaboration with Technopolis 20 in Paphos, aims to answer this question with the exhibition Housemaids and Their Parallel Worlds. Running from November 3 to 16, it's billed as "a reflection on the lives of female migrant labourers who work and live as household help. How," it asks, "do they manage to fulfil their desire for meaning, affirmation and individuality? And how can they have a successful new beginning in their home country following a forced departure?"

Weighty issues indeed for this two week-long event series, which takes in both a photography exhibition and a documentary film. The former is entitled Apples For Sale: a photography collection from renowned German photographer Rebecca Sampson, a Berlin-based German-American with a passion for reportage and social commentary who is known for her coverage of sensitive topics such as Berlin's African drug dealer community and the treatment of eating disorders.

Opening at Technopolis 20, Paphos on Saturday, Apples For Sale touches on the issue of Indonesian maids living and working in Hong Kong, women who "are seen as second-class migrants in a parallel female subculture," say organisers. The exhibition's focus lies in "the contrast between the uniform everyday constraints they experience in the households of their employers and the young women's desire to lead a meaningful existence and explore their own individuality. The result," we're told, "is an extensive body of work: a multimedia installation involving Rebecca Sampson's own photographs and narratives, pictures and texts from third parties, web videos and programmed mobile phones, and the distillation of the entire experience into a book, providing the audience with a 360-degree entry point into this peculiar world."

While the exhibition itself has obviously entailed extensive research over a number of years and gives a well-rounded picture of daily life for those who have been forced by financial concerns to leave their own homes and families, there's more to come&#8230; Nicely complementing the images, we get an absorbing documentary describing the lives of two housemaids who have ended up here in Cyprus&#8230;

An intimate family portrait which will be screened on November 3 at Technopolis, Together Apart is the true story of a mother and daughter who left the Philippines seeking work abroad. The film tracks 25-year-old Guil Ann as she follows her mother Carren -- who has been living and working on the island for nigh on two decades -- to the other side of the world in order to secure employment. "The two end up in Cyprus, even though it offers one of the lowest wages for migrant domestic helpers," explains the film's award-winning director Maren Wickwire, who has a lengthy history charting issues such as labour migration, women's issues, refugee communities, peace-making and post-conflict resolutions.

"However," she continues, "mere months after mother and daughter reunite, unexpected events lead to Carren's forced departure. After twenty years abroad, she now has to adjust to a new beginning in the Philippines."

A film which contemplates notions of self-hood, belonging and care, and shifts between serial migrants' transitory present and projections of the future, Together Apart is a powerful portrayal of lives torn asunder by outside demands. And, together with the photography exhibition, the two "help us see beyond our island," say organisers, "giving us a glance at a nuanced picture of life with all pros and cons and parallel worlds which play an important role in the search for self-determination and living a meaningful life."

Housemaids and Their Parallel Worlds

Exhibition Apples for Sale (running from November 3 -- 16) and screening of the documentary Together Apart at at Technopolis 20, Paphos, on November 3 at 6pm. For more information call 7000 2420 or visit www.technopolis20.com. Entrance is free

The post Real housemaids of Cyprus (and beyond) appeared first on Cyprus Mail .
563
Tenders are invited for recruitment campaign for the german american partnership program

Property and building baden-wrttemberg amt ludwigsburg 20.11.18published: 25.10.18

Award procedure: services

Offer period: 12.11.2018

Major organization : Goethe-institut NEW YORK

Address : 80637 USA CPV-Code 79340000-9, 79416000-3, 79341400-0

Country :Germany

Notice type : Tender Notice

Open date : 2018-11-12
564
Tenders are invited for wastewater treatment plant glckstadt, prefiltration sludge bed

Goethe-institut new york 12.11.18published: 25.10.18

Award procedure: construction services

Offer period: 15.11.2018

Major organization : STADTENTWSSERUNG GLCKSTADT C/O AZV SDHOLSTEIN

Address : 25491 Hetlingen Schleswig-Holstein

Country :Germany

Notice type : Tender Notice

Open date : 2018-11-15
565
Five world-class guitarist and three days of all things strings - all this is in store for city folk this weekend. Set the right mood for your weekend as international guitar masters Heiko Plank (Germany), Adam Tvrdy (Czech Republic), John Ainsworth (United Kingdom), Sandor Szabo (Hungary) and Konarak Reddy (India) play on one stage at Goethe-institut/Max Mueller Bhavan."Heiko is known as the inventor of the 'plank' - a guitar-like instrument that he plays his brand of intuitive music on. John is a young guitarist, singer/songwriter, whose style is blues influenced. He plays a 12-string guitar. Sandor was the first Hungarian acoustic guitarist and has pioneered the creation of innovative guitars - eight and sixteen-string fretted acoustics, along with an eight-string fretless. He also composes and performs experimental music in a new sound form called Ambimorph. Adam is a guitarist and composer with a multi-genre and intense expression. He focuses mainly on his original musical ideas in his interpretations and improvisations. Bengaluru-based Konarak Reddy is internationally renowned for his integration of Carnatic and Hindustani styles of improvisation into his guitar technique," says co-organiser Kirtana Kumar, speaking about the performers. And that's not all. Part of the three-day festival also includes a guitar clinic and a global guitar competition tomorrow.Guitar clinic International masters Heiko, Adam, John and Sandor will teach, interact, play and share life experiences with local musicians.Global guitar competition finalsSince 2007, Konarak has been inviting international guitarists to the city as part of World Guitar Nights. Four years ago, this event was magnified by adding All India Fingerstyle Competition in response to the burgeoning number of guitarists in India. Going global this year, the competition is now Global Guitar Gita Competition. Eleven finalists from cities like Bhopal, Jaipur, Sikkim, Darjeeling and Chennai will compete in the finals. Heiko, Adam, John, Sandor and Konarak will select the winners.
566
 The Goethe-institut, Chennai, is bringing to town one of Germany's most reputed troupes, Wolfgang Haffner and Band, in a unique jazz concert. One of Europe's most skilled jazz drummers and composers, Haffner's career started at the tender age of 18, when he was discovered by legendary German trombonist Albert Mangelsdorff. He has played, recorded and toured with an extensive list of musicians worldwide. In addition to having about 400 albums to his credit, Haffner has performed in some of the world's major jazz festivals and toured in 100 countries - from Japan to the US and from South Africa to Brazil. He has also recorded 16 solo albums and has made a name for himself as a producer for bands like Mezzoforte and German singer Max Mutzke. The latest album of his band, 'Kind of Spain,' was released in 2017 and will be extensively featured in this tour.The concert will be held at Museum Theatre, Egmore at 7pm on October 23. Free passes are available at Goethe-institut-Max Mueller Bhavan, Chennai.
567
Tenders are invited for 20/201810 - audit: digital overall appearance of the Goethe-institut

Goethe-institut e.V. - zentrale 08.11.18published: 10.10.18

Award procedure: services

Offer period: 08.11.2018

Major organization : Goethe-institut EV - ZENTRALE

Address : 80637 Mnchen Bayern

Country :Germany

Notice type : Tender Notice

Open date : 2018-11-08
568
Tenders are invited for delivery of a shelf container for special waste of the waste management center

Goethe-institut e.V. - zentrale 08.11.18published: 10.10.18

Award procedure: delivery services

Offer period: 31.10.2018
569
State Secretary of the Ministry for Science, Research and Art from the German state of Baden-Württemberg, Petra Olschowski visited Namibia from 30 September until 03 October 2018.

She was accompanied by a delegation of representatives of her Ministry, the University of Freiburg, the Pedagogical University of Freiburg, the Regional Archive of Baden-Württemberg as well as the directors of the Linden Museum Stuttgart and the Academy Schloss Solitude.

In the framework of the visit the delegation explored possibilities for a closer cooperation in the areas of culture, arts and science. In addition, the visit served as preparation for the planned return of the "Witbooi Bible", which is currently housed in the Linden Museum in Stuttgart.

Beside a visit to Gross-Barmen, there were talks with the Namibian Minister for Culture, Katrina Hanse-Himarwa, representatives of the Ministry of Education, Arts and Culture as well as the Deputy Minister for Gender Equality and Child Welfare, Lucia Witbooi. State Secretary Olschowski also met with additional members of the Witbooi family.

The delegation exchanged ideas for cooperation projects with representatives of the National Museum of Namibia, the Namibia Scientific Society, the Namibian Museums Association, the University of Namibia and the National Archive. Furthermore the delegation visited the Goethe-institut Namibia.

At the end of the visit Olschowski said: "We came to learn more about Namibia and its culture. We want to improve knowledge about the colonial era and Namibia in Germany and contribute to reconciliation. We look forward to further cooperation with the Namibian partners."
570
Goethe-institut in Amman on Monday opened an exhibition where school students showcased the history of Amman and Jordan, through photographs they took as part of the Heritage Days in Jordan.

Jutta Haser, project manager at the German Protestant Institute of Archaeology (GPIA), said that the exhibition was a tool to help students better understand the history of the Kingdom.

Students of the Jubilee School, for instance, had the chance to visit the Amman Citadel, which was at the centre of their project.

"Amman is a very good example to show the overall history of the country because you can see all periods at the Citadel and this is why we did it and in the museum at the citadel we have a lot of finds and you can show all the periods and the developments of the country," Haser told The Jordan Times at the opening, noting that students were previously briefed by the GPIA staff on the details of the history and archaeology of Jordan.

"Archaeology is one part of our overall culture," the project manager stressed, voicing hope to see the programme continue "so that people can get an idea of Jordan".

Agathe Simonis, of the Goethe-institut, expressed her surprised delight to see some students know so much about history.

"It was very impressive and it was nice to see some students interested in archeology. They are proud of their country and heritage and they want to share it," she stated.

Among the students, aged between 15 and 17 years old, Rand Quda, 17, said the project was "useful because it focused on archaeology, a field that students do not pay attention to".

"The good thing about the project is the practical side. Many of my colleagues have not visited Amman Citadel so it was a chance for them to have an idea of it," she told The Jordan Times.

For 15-year-old Hamza Hayek, who had visited the site many times before, this project turned the location into "a very unique place".

"Now I can enjoy the place due to the information I received," he explained, stressing the importance of photography in documenting these sites for generations to come and make them live in their memory.

Speaking at the ceremony, cultural attache at the German embassy, Jaime Sperberg, said that the exhibition made a "very important contribution for students to understand their own past and present; because there is no present without history".
571
A literary encounter event was held at Goethe-institut Bangladesh on Saturday at its Library in the capital's Dhanmondi area. The Reading Circle Dhaka read and discussed the book titled '30 April 1945' by Alexander Kluge, translated by Wieland Hoban. The book is published by Seagullbooks, supported by a grant from the Goethe-institut.

April 30 in 1945, was a day filled with contradictions and bewildering events that would forever define global history.

Alexander Kluge narrates the stories and events happening around the world on one fateful day.

During the discussion, the Reading Circle vividly discussed about the book transgressing genres, about its position in times of war and politics, discovered the similarities with the present, and how we can still see our own reflections in the upheaval of a single day in 1945. The audience from Bangladesh thoroughly enjoyed the discussion and the lively reading.

Moderator Dr Niaz Zaman, Professor of Department of English of Independent University, conducted the conversation with the readers.

Participants of the Reader Circle were advocate Asfa Hussain, Shireen Mainuddin, Shahrukh Rahman, Dr Razia Khan, Khadija Afzal and Shireen Islam.
572
Township Productions will host the Session Five Bi-monthly Poetry Project on 9 October at Goethe-institut Namibia, under the theme 'A voice from my thoughts -feeling the Word.

The session will kick off at 19:30 and will challenge poets to share their thoughts and give strength to the word be it spoken or written.

The aim of the bi-monthly Poetry Project is to promote poetry as a creative and sustainable activity in the local arts sector, to create a poetry platform for younger and established poets to interact and share skills in writing techniques, recitation and performances and to document poetry activities through publishing, video and audio recordings.

A guest poet and writer from Cameroon MacViban Dzekasu will be part of the session and he will briefly talk about using language as a tool in translating our thoughts into words and print.

He will also explore networking possibilities between Namibia and Cameroon especially with regard to publishing and translations from English to other international languages.

Township Productions launched the 2018 edition of the Bi-monthly Poetry Project on 8 February 2018. This poetry project is in co-operation with the Goethe-institut Namibia, a long term partner of Township Productions, in the promotion and hosting of poetry sessions over the past three years. This far, the Bi-monthly Poetry Project successfully staged Sessions 1, 2, 3 & 4 under various themes.

Township Productions is an arts company that has over the years produced various poetry projects, including numerous Poetry Workshops, 4 Edition of World Poetry Month Commemoration, 5 volumes of Poetry publications, Countless poetry sessions; Poetry reading, recitals and a Regional Poetry Competitions for Secondary Schools in the Erongo Region.

They have also collaborated on poetry related projects with organisations and institutions such as FNCC, Bank Windhoek Arts Festival and Spoken Word, Grass Roots Slam Poetry and also had collaborative work with OYO and Arts Initiative-Zimbabwe.
573
Night Under the Stars (NUTS) will welcome Ethnix on stage this Friday, 5 October. The popular duo is known to add a dash of Namibian spice to the hegemony of internationally recognised genres.

"We refer to our style as traditional hip-hop and R&B because most of our music is in a vernacular, like Otjiherero, and we apply many ethnic accents," said Etjo Kangumine.

Born at Otjiwarongo and raised at Okakarara, the 24-year-old rapper says her relationship with music comes from birth. "Music has always been part of my life and I have been singing since I can remember," she said.

Being submerged in an environment so rich in culture while growing up is reflected through their music, such as the hit 'Mbaire' that was featured in the Namibian film 'Katutura'.

"I started experimenting with music and my voice in primary school. That evolved into discovering my passion for rap in high school," said 25-year-old Julius Marco Hamwele.

He grew up in Windhoek and just knew music was perfect for him. "I have always known I have a passion for music and that was my motivation to pursue it," he said.

This cooperative pursuit of passion has produced tracks like 'Lambela' and more recently 'Omutima', which has been blazing local radio waves.

NUTS will take place at the Goethe-institut Namibia, situated at 1 to 5 Fidel Castro Street in Windhoek, and will start at 19h00.
574
The Pharos Arts Foundation is getting ready for a great cultural season once more, beginning with a literary and poetry evening with Joachim Sartorius on Monday at the Shoe Factory in Nicosia at 7.30pm.

The event, organised in collaboration with the Goethe-institut, will begin with a reading, in English, by Sartorius of The Geckos of Bellapais from his book Mein Zypern (My Cyprus), followed by a reading of a number of his poems in German, as well as in Greek by the distinguished Sartorius translator, Spiros Moskovou.

Sartorius is a poet and literary translator. He has published eight volumes of poetry -- the most recent being his 2016 collection FE-r Nichts und Wieder Alles (For Nothing and Everything) -- numerous books, which were written in collaboration with visual artists, and the poetic travel stories Die Prinzeninseln (The Princes' Islands) in 2009, and Mein Zypern (My Cyprus) in 2013. His poetic works have been translated into 14 languages. Sartorius is also the editor of the complete works of Malcolm Lowry and William Carlos Williams in German.

Born in Fuurth in 1946, Joachim Sartorius grew up in Tunis and, following lengthy periods in New York, Istanbul and Nicosia, he currently lives in Berlin. After completing his legal studies, he worked as a diplomat for 12 years and then as an advisor on European Cultural Politics in Brussels. From 2001 until 2011 he was the Artistic Director of the Berliner Festspiele.

Moskovou is a journalist and literary translator living in Cologne. He was born in Athens in 1960 and studied Classical Philology and History in Athens and Cologne. As of 1989 he has worked as an editor at Deutsche Welle and since 2000 he has been head of the Greek editorial department of DW.

He has translated German prose and poetry into Greek by, among others, Peter Handke, Hans Magnus Enzensberger, Thomas Bernhard, GE-nter Grass, Joachim Sartorius and Karl Krolow. Since 1996 he is a cultural contributor to the Greek weekly newspaper To Vima.

The Pharos Arts Foundation's programme will continue with its tenth International Pharos Contemporary Music Festival from October 5 to 14. The festival will include performances by Ensemble Modern, Klangforum Wien, Pierre-Laurent Aimard and Tamara Stefanovich. As always, the festival will also include parallel events which will make it a rare experience for us all to enjoy.

A Literary and Poetry Evening with Joachim Sartorius

The Pharos Foundation presents a literary evening. October 1. The Shoe Factory, Nicosia. 7.30pm. Free. 
575
It remains a mystery as to why enough attention is not given to research on the life and works of artist SM Sultan. Claims of his reclusive and reactive nature often forced many to shy away from the master painter's presence.

Nasir Ali Mamun, against such odds, spent a significant amount of time with the artist in the village of Masimdia, Narail. Surprisingly, Sultan eased up to the "Poet of the Camera" like a fish in the water. It was like the 2 kindred spirits destined to cross paths between them.

The photographer could never imagine that those portraits would be used as valuable insight on the life of SM Sultan after all these years. The photographs depict the master artist's lifestyle in midst of nature and with his beloved ones during 1970s and 1980s, the most remarkable years of Sultan's career.

Mamun's fifty-eighth solo photography exhibition titled S M. Sultan- The Cosmic Journey of a Fugitive has begun at La Galerie, Alliance Francaise de Dhaka. Sponsored by Delvistaa Foundation, a book on the same title was also launched at the event. The exhibition showcases 27 of Sultan's rare photographs by Mamun.

"I first met S M Sultan back in 1976," said Nasir Ali Mamun, "From then on, I visited him 20 times and stayed with him every time for around 10 days at his place at Masimdia village of Narail."

Minister of Cultural Affairs Asaduzzaman Noor graced the opening as chief guest, which took place on September 20. Marie-Annick Bourdin, Ambassador of France to Bangladesh, Mario Palma, Ambassador of Italy to Bangladesh, eminent artist Monirul Islam, architect and artist Mustapha Khalid Palash, renowned art critic Moinuddin Khaled and the newly appointed director of Alliance Francaise de Dhaka Olivier Dintinger attended the event as honourable guests. Internationally renowned artist Shahabuddin Ahmed, together with a number of important artists and enthusiasts attended the programme.

Dedicated to Shilpacharya Zainul Abedin, the exhibition is showcasing these historic and iconic photographs. Mamun tried to immortalise the inner spirit and philosophy of Sultan illuminating many hidden and obscure facets of the master painter's cosmic journey.

"Sultan alone is a beginning, as well as an end, who carried his own self in society until the very end of his life," Mamun reminisced, "Even such a long time after his death has he been capable of captivating us through his enigmatic personal life and artworks of alternative genres. SM Sultan the person and his paintings were independent from those of his contemporary peers and separate, yet he seemed to have mastered it despite the bohemian artist being detached from his society, living in his primitive residence. It was as if he never existed despite living in a sea of humanity."

"With someone like Sultan so much in discussion as a man ahead of his time, a person not many people could understand or decipher, who better than fate to decide than to pair him with famed portrait photographer Nasir Ali Mamun?" said Architect Mustapha Khalid Palash, who is also the co-founder of Delvistaa Foundation. "It was like a celestial match made in heaven where Mamun, as a person and through his camera, devoted a substantial period of his life by living with SM Sultan. He took him more than as a topic of understudy and devoted his time with him - staying with him, eating with him, hiding in the shadows whenever the artist wanted to contemplate in seclusion and more."

Art critic Moinuddin Khaled said that Sultan's life happens to be the most complicated and mired in the webs of mystery. Similarly his works depict the mystery, making him an artist of mystique. Now the question would be why Mamun chose to be with such a mystical artist. It was the attempt to capture Sultan's portraits by which Mamun could somewhat decipher Sultan's life perceptions and its definitions.

Sheikh Mohammad Sultan, well known as SM Sultan (1924-1998), went to Calcutta Art School and left it after three years without caring to take the degree. At the peak of his career the master painter painted robust figures of farmers in his native surroundings to glorify them.

He never forgot his humble background and returned to his own village and settled down there after holding exhibitions in Simla, Lahore, Boston, New York, Chicago, Washington and London with the dream of creating an art movement that would represent the people and culture of this land.

In London, his paintings were on display with the works of Picasso, Dali, Braque, Klee and other world famous painters at Victoria Embankment, Hampstead in 1956.

Sultan's first solo show in Dhaka was organised in 1976 at Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy and his second and last solo show was held at the Goethe-institut in 1987.

The government honoured him with Ekushey Padak in 1982 and Independence Day Award in 1994. He is the only artist to get the government's 'Resident's Honour from 1984 till his death on October 10, 1994.
576
 Goethe-institut Bangladesh recently presented a book launch and reading of Bertolt Brecht and Hans Magnus Enzensberger at the auditorium of Goethe-institut, Dhanmondi in the city. The books had been translated from German into Bengali by Subroto Saha. The audience enjoyed the discussion and the reading session.

Subroto Saha delivered the welcome speech. Dr. Kirsten Hackenbroch, Director of Goethe-institut Bangladesh, said "With Brecht and Enzensberger we have introduced to two important witnesses of the turmoils of the 20th century in Europe. Engaging with their observations of the state of the world, can never cease to be relevant to us".

To the audience Subroto Saha said "The context of the German poetry of the twentieth century came to mind when Ryan Maria Reale and Bertolt Brecht all came to the fore." He also explained the reason and story behind the translation of Bertolt Brecht and Hans Magnus Enzensberger's books.

Professor Syed Manzoorul Islam discussed in detail the political times that influenced Bertolt Brecht and Hans Magnus Enzensberger and in a conversation with Subrata Saha. Tuku Mozniul and Nayla Tarannum Chowdhury read the poems and short stories.

About the Translator:

Subroto Saha teaches German since 1994 at the Goethe-institut Kolkata, where he also trains German teachers.

He has been translating prose and poetry from German to Bengali since 1997 and has participated in numerous translation projects and bilingual author programs. He has translated Rose Auslander, Ulrike Draesner, Gunter Grass, Josef Winkler, Daniel Kehlmann, Bertolt Brecht, Hans Magnus Enzensberger, Jan Wagner among others. His compilation of 223 poems by Hans Magnus Enzensberger (1950-2015) has been recognized by the publisher Suhrkamp Verlag Berlin and the author as the most comprehensive and successful collection.

Presently he is involved in the first "Social Translating Project". In November 2018, he will be leading the first "Translator Expedition" (Berlin-Kolkata) as part of the "TOLEDO - Translators for Cultural Exchange" project in Kolkata.

Published by HT Digital Content Services with permission from Dhaka Courier.
577
The Goethe-institut is raising the curtains on the latest edition of its Science Film Festival this year, with 38 films shortlisted from countries like Germany, the US, Austria, Australia and Indonesia. The films were selected from 278 entries from 24 countries this year.The objective, according to the institute, is to promote science literacy and awareness of contemporary scientific, technological and environmental issues through film and television content with accompanying educational activities. "The festival was initiated by the Goethe-institut in 2005, following which it has grown across the world. In Chennai, it was launched last year with the theme 'Anthropocene' (a term denoting the current geological age, viewed as the period during which human activity has been the dominant influence on climate and the environment.) This year's theme is 'The Food Revolution'," says Geetha Vedaraman, programme coordinator, Goethe-institut Chennai. The genres this year cover family edutainment, ecology and environment, natural science, life science and technology, culture and history, non-verbal and science shorts.The festival will be organised in cooperation with Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, Environmentalist Foundation of India, Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan, National Stem Education, PASCH (Schools: Partners for the Future) and Rotary Club of Madras (East). It will be inaugurated by T Ramasami, former secretary, Department of Science and Technology. It will be held in Goethe-institut auditorium at 4.30pm on October 4. 
578
The Goethe-institut is raising the curtains on the latest edition of its Science Film Festival this year, with 38 films shortlisted from countries like Germany, the US, Austria, Australia and Indonesia. The films were selected from 278 entries from 24 countries this year.The objective, according to the institute, is to promote science literacy and awareness of contemporary scientific, technological and environmental issues through film and television content with accompanying educational activities. "The festival was initiated by the Goethe-institut in 2005, following which it has grown across the world. In Chennai, it was launched last year with the theme 'Anthropocene' (a term denoting the current geological age, viewed as the period during which human activity has been the dominant influence on climate and the environment.) This year's theme is 'The Food Revolution'," says Geetha Vedaraman, programme coordinator, Goethe-institut Chennai. The genres this year cover family edutainment, ecology and environment, natural science, life science and technology, culture and history, non-verbal and science shorts.The festival will be organised in cooperation with Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, Environmentalist Foundation of India, Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan, National Stem Education, PASCH (Schools: Partners for the Future) and Rotary Club of Madras (East). It will be inaugurated by T Ramasami, former secretary, Department of Science and Technology. It will be held in Goethe-institut auditorium at 4.30pm on October 4. 
579
Even if you only speak a few words, learning a foreign language is a great tool to get closer to each other and the European Day of Languages (EDL) is a fun event to take part in to sensitise people in this regard, said Maria Rosaria Papa, president of the Societa Dante Alighieri in Jordan. Like every year since the establishment of the EDL in 2012, European cultural institutes such as the Societa Dante have been offering people the chance to celebrate the richness of languages through a variety of activities organised by the European Union National Institutes for Culture (EUNIC) with the support of the EU. "The celebrations, which included drama, music, storytelling, quizzes and interactive games, aimed to bring EU-Jordanian relations closer through languages," EUNIC Events and Communication Officer Tala Al Sayyed told The Jordan Times on Monday, voicing her happiness to see "an excellent turn out this year", with a little over 800 people attending the event. Divided into two age groups (10 to 15 years old in the morning and 15 years and above in the afternoon), the EDL witnessed the participation of EUNIC's five cultural centres: The British Council, the Instituto Cervantes, the Institut Franais (IFJ), the Goethe-institut and the Societa Dante Alighieri, as well as the embassies of Austria, Belgium, Greece, Romania and Sweden, in addition to Georgia, the guest country for this year. "For the first time, we had 13 countries participating in the EDL this year, which is absolutely fantastic because it offered more versatile activities that were prepared by each country," Al Sayyed highlighted, adding "for instance, we got to organise quizzes for which each winner was picked for free language courses at the centres". Representing the Italian Societa Dante, which has been participating in the event since 2012, Rosaria Papa said: "Every year, it is great fun for both the Dante Amman and visitors. With this year's theme -- cultural heritage -- we presented some Italian intangible heritage like food, music and dance. She told The Jordan Times that the wide variety of activities organised at the Haya Cultural Centre in Shmeisani aimed to "sensitise participants on the richness of European variety in languages and cultures". For the deputy director of the IFJ, Christel Potdevin, the event is "always a pleasure to participate in". "As one of the oldest language centres in the region [the IFJ was founded in 1963] the Institut Francais represents France, its culture and language. Thus, such events give the chance for those who learn French to practice the language while playing and listening to music," she told The Jordan Times. Potdevin highlighted the great advantages of speaking French, saying "French is one of the most spoken languages in Europe and the world, as it is spoken in each and every continent. It is an official language in various international agencies and NGOs worldwide and one can speak French all the way from Canada to Australia, going to Congo, Luxembourg, Morocco and Lebanon". Established by the Council of Europe in 2001 to encourage language-learning, the EDL is celebrated every year around the world to raise awareness of the importance of languages and their benefits for intercultural understanding, according to a statement by EUNIC.
580
Student of the Lviv Lyceum 28 Yarema-Luka Eleiko won the XII International Final of the International Youth Debate, which took place on September 20, 2018 in Bratislava, Slovakia.

In total, 24 pupils-winners of national competitions took part in this stage, taking first and second places in 12 countries of Central and Eastern Europe. During the week in Bratislava, they competed in international qualifying rounds and semifinals.

Among the 4 participants who came to the final debate on "Should television and radio channels be better protected from government influence?", Yarema-Luka Eleiko became better and won.

Reference: "Jugend debattiert international" is a Goethe-institut project, the Memory of the Foundation. Responsibility. The Future ", the Gerti Foundation and the Central Office for Secondary Education abroad.
581
Bengaluru is set to host the third edition of Moving Waters Film Festival (MWFF) - featuring a gripping array of movies that shed light on the water bodies on Earth and the life they support. "While the previous two editions were more about the oceans and lakes, the 2018 fest will also focus on lakes, as they are relevant of the ecosystem of our city," says Tarun Nair, a member of MWFF's organising group. The festival is scheduled to take place at Goethe-institut/Max Mueller Bhavan on September 22 and 23. The fundamental purpose behind the initiative is to enlighten common people more about the oceans, rivers and lakes. Although water comprises more than two-thirds the planet, not much is known about beyond the edge of land. Frozen and impassable for centuries, some of these areas are being overfished and polluted, thanks to erratic human behaviour. Climate change and global warming are also posing a threat to these parts of the planet. While dams are being built on rivers, disturbing free flow of water into the sea, lakes are being trashed and encroached. "Through the festival, we are trying to highlight issues that slow down conservation efforts and more," Tarun points out, adding, "More than 25 films will be showcased at the festival - with the prominent ones being Britton Caillouette and Patagonia's Blue Heart that documents the fight to save the last wild rivers in the Balkans; Marko R|hr's Tale of a Lake that narrates a story of the icy waters of Finland's Lake Saimaa; Suresh Elamon's Kananam: The Spirit of Silent Valley, a story of a people's movement to protect the Kunthi River and the valley it flows through." Apart from the films, the festival will also conduct discussions, featuring a host of topical experts. There will also be two workshops - Rithesh Nanda will talk about underwater photography and its nuances, while Nisha Abdulla will conduct an ocean-themed storytelling workshop for children.
582
Movie buffs are in for a treat as the fifth edition of the Urban Lens Film Festival is all set to be held in Bengaluru this week. Starting today, the four-day film festival will witness film screenings from across the globe, discussions by filmmakers and a public lecture on Malayalam cinema.The film festival, organised by Indian Institute for Human Settlements (IIHS) in collaboration with Goethe-institut/ Max Mueller Bhavan, will bring different kinds of films - fiction and non-fiction, experimental and animation - under one roof. Subasri Krishnan, who is a part of the film festival, says, "We are bringing different kinds of films that are not accessible in a movie theatre easily, and films from countries like Brazil, Iran, Mozambique, South Asia and more in one space. We are attempting to draw the larger public in Bengaluru towards films and conversations revolving around it."Some of the films screening at the festival are Rangbhoomi and Pushkar Puran by filmmaker Kamal Swaroop, As Time Goes by in Shanghai and Pink Taxi by Uli Gaulke, Ek Aur Inquilab Aaya by Uma Chakravarti, Portrait of a City by Chidanand Dasgupta, Jamnapaar by Abhinava Bhattacharya, and Bismaar Ghar by Shreyas, among others.Subasri says that audiences will be exposed to different cultures and filmmaking techniques through the festival. "Some of the filmmakers will be present at the festival and audiences will get a chance to hear them talk about the making of their respective films, and will also get a chance to engage with them during a Q&A session," says Subasri, adding, "One of the main reasons for conducting this film festival is to look at how filmmakers view the city through cinema and what we can learn about the city through films. The idea is to look at the city through different lenses, hence the name Urban Lens."Twenty-eight films from 11 countries will be screened at the film festival, including some by Bengaluru filmmakers. In addition to this, there will also be conversations around the idea of cinematic practice with filmmakers and editors, such as Jabeen Merchant and Sameera Jain, and a public lecture around Malayalam cinema and the city by film scholar and curator Ratheesh Radhakrishnan.
583
For the first time in 21 years, the annual film event will kick off in Cebu City, from Sept. 27 to 30, at three venues: Circa 1900, Alliance Francaise de Cebu and Ayala Center Cebu City.

The Manila leg will begin at the Cinematheque Centre of the Film Development Council of the Philippines, from Nov. 20 to 25, then proceed to its usual home, Shangri-La Plaza, from Dec. 7 to 16.

For the 2018 edition, 28 films from 16 countries (European Union member states Austria, Belgium, Czech Republic, Denmark, France, Germany, Hungary, Italy, the Netherlands, Poland, Romania, Slovakia, Spain, Sweden, United Kingdom, as well as Norway) will present their best cinematic gems.

This year's fest marks the celebration of the European Year of Cultural Heritage.

Ambassador Franz Jessen remarked that the fest was 'one of the most effective means for the European Union to reach out to the Filipino people. It is a unique way to showcase European cultural diversity in the Philippines.'

Martin Macalintal, audio-visual attache of the French embassy, told the Inquirer that, through its two entries (Morgan Simon's 'A Taste of Ink' and Jean-Luc Godard's 'Pierrot le Fou'), Filipino audiences would realize that 'Philippine society is actually similar to Europe ... more than the United States.'

Although the Godard classic was released in 1965 and Simon's film was made in 2016, both works 'allow viewers to relate to the social conditions prevailing then and now.'

Alessandro Milani, general manager of the Philippine Italian Association, related that Italy would also field two films from the past and present.

Federico Fellini's 'Nights of Cabiria' (1957) was chosen to commemorate the filmmaker's 25th death anniversary.

Meanwhile, Paolo Bertola's 'The Lease' (2018) is the first Italian film produced in the Philippines and features Ruben Maria Soriquez and Garie Concepcion in the lead.

Milani pointed out that projects like this fest illustrated 'how exposure to cultural diversity can enrich our own perspectives.'

Exposure to different cultures, Milani explained, gives us 'new ways to look at the world and obliges us to question and reconsider our beliefs. It is undoubtedly the best way to grow up without growing old.'

Zelpha Marie Bombais, press and cultural attache of the Austrian embassy, asserted that in choosing the entry, Barbara Albert's 'Mademoiselle Paradis,' the team endeavored to pick a movie that 'revels in its Europeanness, while telling a story that resonates among today's viewers, as well.'

The 2017 film, which centers on an 18th-century blind pianist, looks at the issue of living with a disability from a unique angle. 'Filipinos will see how struggles to conform and stand out ... go beyond culture and time.'

Maria Pilar Cuadra Gascon, first secretary of Cultural Affairs of the Spanish embassy, described the two films-Luis Garcia Berlanga's 'Bienvenido Mister Marshall' (1953) and Adolfo Aristarain's 'Martin (Hache)' (1997)-in the program as 'landmarks in the country's film industry.'

'Even though each movie reflects Spanish society at the time it was filmed, they also address issues, such as migration or gender concerns, that are still present in many places,' Gascon said. 'Viewers will see the tremendous change that has taken place in Spain ... and in Europe in general.'

Charlene Batulan, press officer of Goethe-institut, noted that the two German films-Katja von Garnier's 'Windstorm' (2013) and Fatih Akin's 'Head-On' (2004)-tell stories of 'love, belongingness and acceptance.'

Batulan stated: This fest allows participants 'to share with viewers an image of their country in a medium accessible and understandable to all. Europe evolves over time and these changes are apparent in its films.'

Kevin Punzalan, senior commercial officer of the embassy of the Netherlands, recounted that Martin Koolhoven's 'Winter in Wartime' (2008) shows 'the social and cultural similarities between the Dutch and Filipino societies. While both countries have experienced prolonged times of hardship, we have managed to keep the values of hospitality, support and love for one another at the core of our communities.'

Lastly, the three Belgian films in the lineup-Frank van Mechelen's 'Groenten uit Balen (Germaine)' (2011), Gert Embrechts' 'Allez, Eddy!' (2012), and Marion Hansel's 'En amont du fleuve' (2016)-will take viewers on a 'vibrant, introspective journey.'

These movies 'reflect family and community values, the relationship of parents and their children, the role of the youth and the solidarity of workers, as well as the search for individual identity.'
584
Tenders are invited for police inspection goslar, tiling at the main entrance

Goethe-institut sao paulo-cultural center ... 11.10.18verffentlicht: 11.09.18

Award procedure: construction services

Offer period: 26.09.2018

Major organization : STAATLICHES BAUMANAGEMENT SDNIEDERSACHSEN

Address : 38640 Goslar Niedersachsen

Country :Germany

Notice type : Tender Notice
585
For over a decade, the two brothers Don Caramelo and Paco Mendoza have been inspiring their fans with a mix of offbeat, dancehall, cumbia muffin and niceness. No matter, if in San Francisco, Hanoi, Rio de Janeiro or Zurich - their crew as a sound system or full band always guarantees shows full of energy!

The band shows a beautiful combination of their music with everyday topics, political messages and especially a positive approach to life in their songs. Their particular style with different rhythms is wowing people all over the globe while touring extensively through Central- and South America (2008/2013/2015), Southeast Asia (2017), South Asia (2017/2018) and of course Europe.

The 'Schools: Partners for the Future' (PASCH) initiative was launched in February 2008 by Germany's Federal Foreign Office.

The Goethe-institut supports around 600 PASCH schools in the national education systems of over 100 countries. The initiative is designed to arouse and sustain young people's interest in and enthusiasm for modern-day Germany, German society and the German language. A global network of partner schools of the Federal Republic of Germany is being created; the schools become part of an international community of learners through shared activities and exchange.

On the other hand, in Bangladesh, the PASCH network consists of five partner schools, namely Oxford International School, European Standard School, South Point School and College, Maple leaf International School and Chittagong Mastermind International School. In the school year 2017/2018, 1,278 students learned German as a foreign language in different levels. Learning German has increasingly become more popular; in comparison, only 770 students studied German in the five PASCH schools in 2015.

The PASCH-initiative in Bangladesh was started by the Goethe-institut Bangladesh with a programme to train teachers in both the necessary language skills as well as teaching skills for interactive modern language teaching.

Now 26 teachers are providing quality education in German language while Goethe-institut provides continuous support in teachers' training. Furthermore, students of German language in the five PASCH schools receive many opportunities to visit the Goethe-institut for example for film screenings and theater plays as well as to participate in youth camps in South Asia and Germany.

Goethe-institut Bangladesh and its five partner schools, Oxford International School, European Standard School, South Point School and College, Maple leaf International School and Chittagong Mastermind International School, celebrated 10 years of 'Schools: Partner for the Future' (PASCH initiative) with a concert of German-Swiss raga and dancehall band RAGGABUND. The four-member band RAGGABUND rocked the audience at the National Theater Hall, Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy.

Inaugurating the event, Dr Kirsten Hackenbroch, Director of the Goethe-institut Bangladesh, said, "Over the past 10 years, German as a foreign language became increasingly popular in Bangladesh. The PASCH partner schools, with their commitment to train teachers and hold interactive foreign language classes, are setting a crucial basis for this. For the future, we look forward to engaging with the alumni, to intensify our global networking, and to support those who are eager to conduct higher studies in Germany. In the name of Goethe-institut Bangladesh, I would today like to thank all who made the PASCH network in the last years a vibrant space for intercultural exchange!"

The Deputy Head of Mission of the German Embassy, Michael Schultheib, underlined that learning another language opens new perspectives and allows insights into another culture and way of thinking. By learning German the students in Bangladesh not only improve their language skills, but also become ambassadors for the close bilateral relations between Germany and Bangladesh.

During the event, four students were announced as winners of a video competition producing music videos for songs of RAGGABUND. The first price, participation in a PASCH Youth Camp in Sri Lanka, went to Samiul Gani Daihan and Mehedi Khan Mojish (Oxford International School), the second price went to Shohaib Hossain and Sakiyun Noor (South Point School and College).

Band profile of RAGGABUND: Pacho Mendoza (vocal and acoustic), Don Caramelo (vocal and beatbox), Da luca: (guitar and vocal) and Mikey board (keyboard). It is noted that the Goethe-institut / Max Mueller Bhavan again presented the German band RAGGABUND in Kathmandu, in Dhaka and in various cities in India from August 27 to September 10.
586
Tenders are invited for Goethe-institut washington / 201809 - renting an advertising vehicle / show truck project "wanderbus"

Goethe-institut - washington, dc 05.10.18published: 06.09.18

Award procedure: services

Offer period: 05.10.2018

Major organization : Goethe-institut - WASHINGTON, DC

Address : 20006 Washington, DC District Of Columbia

Country :Germany

Notice type : Tender Notice

Open date : 2018-10-05
587 A six-day Dhaka Doclab, an international workshop-cum-market pitching programme for promoting South Asian film makers in international market, began on August 31 at Liberation War Museum.

Dhaka Doclab had partnered with the Liberation War Museum and was supported by several local and international organisations such as Cosmos Foundation, International Film Initiative of Bangladesh (IFIB), Goethe-institut Bangladesh and others.

The programme included 4-day mentoring and 2-day documentary project pitching sessions. European, Japanese and Korean filmmakers, broadcasters, sales agents, producers and festival managers also participated at the workshops.

Cultural Affairs Minister Asaduzzaman Noor was chief guest at the inauguration ceremony, which was also attended by Dhaka DocLab Trustee Board Chairman Nasir Uddin Yousuf, Liberation War Musuem trustee and cultural personality Mofidul Haq, Documentary Research Initiative Kolkata founder Nilutpol Mojumder, Dhaka DocLab director Tarek Ahmed, IFIB president Samia Zaman and others.

Event know-how

The six-day workshop was divided into two segments. In the first segment, the participants were divided into four groups and were trained on the first three days of the workshop. The international guests then provided mentorship for the participants in various technical aspects of filmmaking.

In the second segment, 15 selected participants pitched their co-produced projects in front of local and international producers, television broadcasters, commissioning editors, film distributors, film industry experts and representatives of film funding organisations.

Each of the selected participants got 15 minutes to pitch their ideas, and later got the opportunity to sit with the interested broadcasters, film donors, and film distributors to discuss the execution of their projects.

The workshop's concluding ceremony was held on September 5, with awards given out to the best film projects by the participants.

'The main intention of organising this progaramme is to provide a platform for local and south Asian filmmakers and help them to access international market. The participants will gain knowledge about international co-productions at the programme', said Tareq Ahmed, director of Doclab.

'A total of 25 young filmmakers and observers from various countries participated in the workshops. Each filmmaker got seven minutes of presentation time. They also got four minutes to describe their stories and themes and three minutes to screen trailers of the projects', Tareq added.

The inaugural ceremony was followed by a screening of the documentary film Distant Barking of Dogs, directed by Simon Lereng Wilmont.

Filmmaker Paul Pauwels from the European Documentary Network said that "Though the documentary film making scene here is relatively in its early stages, it seems to be gaining momentum with time. And with such initiatives grooming the film makers of today, it will not be long until we see the prominence of the talents here, illuminating the international arenas."

Bangladeshi filmmakers displayed seven projects, while Indian and Nepalese filmmakers displayed six and two projects respectively. The Bangladeshi projects included Saiful Haq Omi's "136- Act Rohingya", Farzana Boby's "Rhythm of Bubble", Mehei Mustafa's "Making Places", Faiham Ebna Sharif's "Tea Tales of Bangladesh", Saiful Jarnal's "Jummon's Cinema Fantasy", Nabila Mrittika Hossain's "Hip Hop" and Anwar Chowdhury's "The Last Visit".

One of the masterclass moderators, British filmmaker Sean McAllister, had previously won the Special Jury Prize at the 2005 edition of the Sundance Film Festival. During the masterclass he talked about his 2008 film "Japan: A Story of Love and Hate", which he told participants could inspire them to document similar melancholic stories in local context. "They have so many themes of sufferings and injustice to choose from", he told Dhaka Courier.

Berlinale Spotlight made way to Dhaka

The Berlinale has presented specially curated film programmes around the globe for many years now. Berlinale Spotlight is an extension of the main festival in February and makes Berlinale activities visible throughout the year. On the occasion of the Dhaka DocLab, the Berlin International Film Festival presented a Berlinale Spotlight in Bangladesh. "Berlinale Spotlight gives us the opportunity to make our work concrete and tangible beyond the confines of the festival in February. We're excited about the IFI Bangladesh and Dhaka DocLab's interest in the Berlinale and thank them for the chance to network with filmmakers in Bangladesh." said Berlinale Director Dieter Kosslick.

"The Berlinale's interest in Bangladesh is excellent news for our film professionals. The new generation of filmmakers in Bangladesh is working hard to establish their place alongside the world film fraternity. This is an excellent opportunity for them," commented Samia Zaman, president of the International Film Initiative of Bangladesh (IFIB).

Within the framework of the Dhaka DocLab, Berlinale initiatives such as the Berlinale World Cinema Fund (WCF), Berlinale Talents and the Berlinale Co-Production Market were presented alongside a documentary film programme.

Dr Kirsten Hackenbroch, Director of Goethe-institut Bangladesh said that Berlinale Spotlight Bangladesh offers the independent filmmakers of this country a chance to feel and learn about Berlinale, gives Berlinale a chance to meet the vibrant young generation of film makers, and gives Goethe-institut a chance to explore and kick-off a future collaborating in film.

During her presentation, Dorothee Wenner, Delegate to the Berlin Film Festival for South Asia and sub-Saharan Africa said that they are hoping to intensify their network into the Bangladeshi film community on personal, professional and artistic levels. First impression, the timing could not have been more perfect as they are learning about a lot of interesting film projects here in the making. The Berlinale Spotlight in Bangladesh has been a great way to initiate a collaboration between the Goethe-institut, the Dhaka DocLab and International Film Initiative of Bangladesh.

Meenakshi Shedde, South Asia Consultant, Berlin Film Festival stated that, "for her coming from Mumbai, the heart of Bollywood, it is a particular pleasure, not only to discover a variety of regional film talent from all over India, but also all over South Asia. Bangladeshi talents have already made a mark on the international film festival circuit. Through this collaboration between the Berlinale and three vital cultural institutions in Dhaka, we hope the Berlinale can be a launching pad for many more film talents from Bangladesh in the years to come."

Dhaka Doclab is striving to be Bangladesh's premier documentary co-production platform for pitching and mentoring of documentary filmmakers.
588
Contract notice: Framework agreement on the supply of media to the Goethe-institut libraries abroad

bratislava, Budapest, Krakow, Prague, Riga, Warsaw media supply to the Goethe-institut libraries abroad.

This contract is divided into lots: Yes

time limit for receipt of tenders or requests to participate: Date: 02/10/2018local time: 12:00

conditions for opening tenders date: 02/10/2018local time: 12:15

Major organization : Goethe-institut E. V. ZENTRALE

Address : Dachauer Str. 122

Mnchen
589
An information session on Berlinale's different programmes held on Monday morning at the Goethe-institut Bangladesh auditorium in the capital's Dhanmondi area.

Welcoming the audience Dr Kirsten Hackenbroch, Director of Goethe-institut Bangladesh said, "Today all that many persons have contemplated about for years comes true. Berlinale Spotlight Bangladesh offers the independent filmmakers of this country a chance to feel and learn about Berlinale, gives Berlinale a chance to meet the vibrant young generation of film makers, and gives Goethe-institut a chance to explore and kick-off a future collaborating in film."

During her presentation, Dorothee Wenner, delegate to the Berlin Film Festival for South Asia and sub-Saharan Africa said that they are hoping to intensify their network into the Bangladeshi film community on personal, professional and artistic levels. First impression, the timing could not have been more perfect as they are learning about a lot of interesting film projects here in the making.

The Berlinale Spotlight in Bangladesh has been a great way to initiate a collaboration between the Goethe-institut, the Dhaka DocLab and International Film Initiative of Bangladesh.

Meenakshi Shedde, South Asia Consultant, Berlin Film Festival stated, "For her coming from Mumbai, the heart of Bollywood, it is a particular pleasure, not only to discover a variety of regional film talent from all over India but also all over South Asia. Bangladeshi talents have already made a mark on the international film festival circuit. Through this collaboration between the Berlinale and three vital cultural institutions in Dhaka, we hope the Berlinale can be a launching pad for many more film talents from Bangladesh in the years to come."

Goethe-institut Bangladesh, in partnership with Dhaka DocLab and the International Film Initiatives of Bangladesh, hosting a 'Berlinale Spotlight Bangladesh' events from September 2 to 6.

The 'Berlinale Spotlight' aims to connect the Berlin International Film Festival with filmmakers in Bangladesh, and provides a platform for information and one-to-one meetings with a delegate and a consultant of Berlinale, framed by public film screenings.

During the information session, Berlinale delegate Dorothee Wenner and Berlinale South Asia consultant Meenakshi Shedde introduced the opportunities Berlinale and its diverse sub-programmes offer to filmmakers in Bangladesh and both took part in Q&A session to answer queries of the audience.

Published by HT Digital Content Services with permission fr
590
Chennai's theatre scenario is on the up of late u we see many innovative attempts on the stage by talented youngsters. But what if the art were to merge with theatre, and lead to something new, a new form of art, perhaps? As is this attempt u which is a sort of ensemble piece with a podcast, a video installation, a dance performance and more u given the touch of a theatrical production. Take Flight, takes 'multimedia' seriously, and gives the audience a slice of many things in just two evenings. There's podcast u quite on the ball with the topic, Thomas Manuel and Ujwal Nair (whose brainwave it is), grapple with why is it that the artist always has to compromise with the society. A good question, considering we're still trying to mainstream theatre and getting folks to walk in to see a play with as much gusto as they do for a say, Rajini film. Titled The Odds, the podcasts (this happened yesterday) did raise some valid points, as did yet another theatrical innovation u the Jasmine Village. A video installation by Ramya Shanmugam. We guess it was supposed to inspire a desire, a quest for the unknown... It was brilliant in itself, but it did stand out in a garish contrast to the rest of the pieces of the ensemble, which were mellow in their presentation.Spilling over to today (of which we saw a preview), Take Flight has a contemporary dance performance by Aditi Bheda (Gestures of Belonging) u a theatrical interpretation about the human search for his or her comfort zone, a dance of the hands, in other words, of how our hands must touch many things before it finally touches that which comforts the soul, which tells us we're home. Fitting neatly into this search for a place slot is also Lentils and Stones, yet another part of this production. It is a puppetry dance show by Vijay Ravikumar, inspired by the poem of the same name, by Armenian poet, Zahrad. As the title indicates, it's about a lady who goes about her everyday routine, while imagining adventures in faraway lands in her mind (don't we all?).A series of ceramic sculptures inspired by step-wells and courtyards, Plant-well, by Charanya Khandhadai and Richardo Alson complete this stage production, which has actually been conceptualised by Perch.So, for those who like those tiny out-of-thebox quirks jazzing up the mundane, this is a good way to spend a Sunday evening u at the Goethe-institut Max Mueller Bhavan (shows are 6pm onwards). Entry is free.
591
A 'melting pot,' that was how Alessandro Milani, general manager of the Philippine-Italian Association, described the International Silent Film Festival, now on its 12th year.

The annual event not only highlights the rich treasures of the silent film era, but also serves as a musical odyssey that allows Filipino artists to provide 'live scoring' to these screen gems.

Milani explained what makes this fete fascinating: 'It brings together different countries with their different aesthetics in cinema. Music plays a crucial role in this event. Filipino musicians are tasked to act as local audiences' bridge to these silent films from different eras and countries.'

Ongoing until Sept. 2 at SM Megamall Cinema 2, the fest features eight films from eight nations.

The fest opened yesterday with Italy's entry, Nino Oxilia's 'Rapsodia Satanica.' Released in 1917, the film is the work of a poet-playwright who was among the 650,000 Italians killed during World War I. The screening commemorates the 100th anniversary of the film and the end of the war, as well.

MilesExperience scored the melodrama, which tells the story of a socialite who makes a deal with the devil to attain eternal beauty and youth. 'We found that the bluesy melodies of MilesExperience matched the film's refined visuals.'

The Philippine entry, Khavn dela Cruz's contemporary omnibus work 'This is Not a Lost Film By Khavn' (tonight at 7), underscores the tragic reality that most, if not all, of our silent movies have been lost-either due to war or neglect.

The Film Development Council of the Philippines hailed this screening concert as 'timely, in light of the centennial celebration of our country's cinema.'

France is fielding an iconic 1928 film, Carl Theodor Dreyer's 'La Passion de Jeanne D'Arc' (tonight at 9). Martin Macalintal, audiovisual attache of the French Embassy, told the Inquirer that the classic was 'fully restored by France's Ministry of Culture, through the CNC (National Center of Cinematography and the Moving Image) and the Institut Francais.'

Pianist Dingdong Fiel, with Andrew Constantino (clarinet) and Kyongmin Nam (cello), will accompany the screening. 'Dingdong is a versatile musician who can shift from classical to other genres,' Macalintal stated.

Germany's entry, Robert Wiene's 'The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari,' is another landmark film (4 p.m. tomorrow). 'It is easily one of the Top 5 most influential German films from the silent era. We never got around to show it until now,' Shadin Kitma said, program coordinator of the Goethe-institut.

Horror is a genre 'enjoyed everywhere' and with this 1920 film, cineastes will see 'how narrative techniques were first employed in cinema,' related Kitma.

'Kontra-GaPi's musical flavor, with its array of Southeast Asian ethnic instruments, blends perfectly with the visuals of the film,' Kitma noted.

Kontra-GaPi's Kevin Camarao pointed out: 'It was an important opportunity for us to get immersed in a different culture. To paraphrase Johann Wolfgang von Goethe: Those who know nothing of foreign cultures know nothing of their own.'

Japan will unveil a recently rediscovered 1929 film, Yasujiro Ozu's 'A Straightforward Boy' (6 p.m. tomorrow). Although an earlier version was screened in the 2015 Silent film fest 'a complete and fully intact' edition of Ozu's comedy classic, which was discovered three years ago, will be presented this year.

Film critic Tito Valiente will act as benshi (narrator), with Tanikala Tribe performing an original score based on melodies taken from Bikol folk songs.

The United States is offering Buster Keaton's 1923 comedy, 'Our Hospitality' (8 p.m. tomorrow). Keaton is one of the more familiar faces of the American silent era, along with Charlie Chaplin and Lillian Gish. The Brass Munkeys, a band of veterans known for their lively and bold performances, will dish out the score.

Spain will screen the 1926 musical-comedy, Arturo Carballo's 'Frivolinas' (Sept. 2, 5 p.m.). Carlos Madrid, director of Instituto Cervantes, remarked that the fest is 'a unique combination of the past and the present. On one hand, it's about live music and the contemporary music scene. Yet, it also talks about the need to rescue and preserve our cinematic legacy.'

Burn Belacho of Tapati compared scoring 'Frivolinas' to 'weaving the film's soundscape ... using chord patterns, musical textures that hopefully establish a connection ... among the viewers, while staying true to our individual and collective expression.'

Lastly, Austria is entering the 1929 romance, Robert Land's 'Die Kleine Veronika' (Sept. 2, 7:30 p.m.). The film revolves around a Tyrolean mountain girl who visits Vienna, only to discover that city life isn't what she had previously imagined. Scoring will be by avant-pop electronica solo Joee and I.

This year, the Austrian embassy worked closely with Hearlife Foundation, Inc., an organization committed to champion the Filipino deaf, and MED-EL Philippines.
592
German Chancellor Angela Merkel is well-known and liked in Nigeria, so expectations for her visit on Friday are unsurprisingly high. Observers are hoping for better trade relations -- and a boost for women in politics.

When German Chancellor Angela Merkel arrives in Nigeria's capital Abuja on Friday, nagging issues such as migration and repatriation will not be on the agenda. Instead, Merkel will -- hopefully -- be welcomed with open arms, as Germany and its chancellor are considered reliable international partners. "She is a woman who cares, and is helping Nigeria to build a democratic government based on the German model," Sara Muhammad, who is learning German at the Goethe-institut in Lagos told DW.

However, Merkel will only be in Nigeria for one morning. She will first meet with the president of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), Jean-Claude Brou, to discuss further cooperation between Germany and the community of 15 countries -- which for many West Africans is probably even more abstract than the European Union (EU) is for Europeans.

However, Merkel's main focus will be on economic issues and a meeting with Nigerian President Muhammadu Buhari. Here, Merkel is hailed by many for her competence. "The German government is responsible, they are interested in how things in Africa work," businessman Isaac Amos, who is also a member of the Nigerian German Business Association (NGBA), told DW. He believes that Germany is ready to promote more research between the two states. "It's a win-win situation for both sides, as the Germans could also learn aspects of tropical medicine from us," says Amos.

Visit hopes to inspire young people

Also on Merkel's schedule during her short time in Nigeria is a meeting with representatives from civil society. Moses Siasia, who founded the Nigerian Young Professionals Forum (NYPF), thinks it will be vital for Merkel to also speak with young Nigerians. "They play an important role," said Siasia, who three years ago decided to enter into politics by running for governor in the state of Bayelsa. In Nigeria, 62 percent of the population is under the age of 25. These kinds of high-level meetings are therefore seen as an important message to young people and young adults and have the potential to inspire them.

"I was very excited when I was chosen as a young entrepreneur to attend a meeting with French President Emmanuel Macron when he was in Nigeria," says Siasia. "I leaned things from him that I had never heard in my entire life. So when presidents meet with young people, it sends a very powerful signal that is very inspiring and motivating."

Managing director of The Integrity Organization, Soji Apampa, who has been working on anti-corruption measures since 1995, has his own recommendations for Merkel during her time in Nigeria. "My message for Merkel is that it's all about trade," he told DW. "But I hope are you going to think about trade from the grassroots up, not just the big corporations. Yes, we need business with the big corporations, but that is not enough to make a difference at scale with the kind of population that Nigeria has."

Europe must open up to African products

If a functional relationship is to develop, however, something important has to change. Nigeria must be given the opportunity to produce products for the European market. "Instead of having more migrants coming, have more products coming, more imports from Nigeria," says Apampa. "The way you can help is to soften it by giving the technical assistance for people to meet the EU standards, so what is being exported is acceptable grade."

Merkel's visit to Nigeria just happens to coincide with another visit from British Prime Minister Theresa May. "It's an interesting coincidence," says Apampa. He believes May's visit is linked somehow to Brexit and setting up deals as soon as possible with the former British colony. "I think if I were Theresa May and I was faced with this possibility of a hard Brexit, I would like to keep my friends closer. Nigeria is not an enemy of the UK. And if I had a lot more influence in Nigeria than, say, my competitors in Europe had, then I had better get in there quickly and do a deal before they come in and do their deal and I find myself left on the sidelines."

The issue of terrorism not forgotten

Aisha Yesufu, one of Nigeria's most prominent activists from the #BringBackOurGirls movement, hopes that Merkel will speak with Buhari not just about economic issues, but also about the Chibok girls. After they were abducted in mid-April 2014, 112 girls are still in the clutches of the extremist group, Boko Haram. The movement still holds vigils every day and protests for their freedom. The issue has also been raised in previous meetings with visiting politicians.

"Basically my expectations when it comes to the Chibok girls is for the chancellor to remember them and speak to our president about it and to make a commitment towards rescuing our girls," Yesufu told DW. "We must understand, these girls are no longer just girls from Chibok, or girls from Nigeria. They are a symbol of children suffering suppression all over the world."

The visits by Merkel and May are also being viewed as a message to the men who dominate Nigerian politics. "Of course I do hope my president understands now, and also from the last time he met the chancellor, that the place of a woman is not in the other room or in the kitchen." Buhrari was reportedly somewhat unhappy during his visit to Germany in 2016 when he was asked if he would allow his wife Aisha to reorganize the government. Even Merkel couldn't resist a smile.

"Women are actually out there doing amazing things," says Yesufu. "So I think [Merkel] will send a signal."
593
JOHANNESBURG architecture firm, Local Studio, has launched its first book chronicling the firm's first 12 built projects and five years of practice in the City of Gold.

The book, titled Hustles, documents the buildings designed and built by the firm, founded by Thomas Chapman in 2012.

Co-authored by Chapman and photographer David Southwood, with illustrations by Michael Tymbios, Hustles was launched earlier this month in Braamfontein.

Hustles reveals the work of Local Studio in vivid snapshots, diagrams, essays and interviews - from chaotic Hillbrow to the arid landscape of Tsakane, with Westbury, Brixton and Braamfontein in between.

Local Studio works mainly in the affordable housing, social infrastructure and public space sectors and is responsible for several projects that have played a part in the regeneration of downtown Johannesburg.

The importance of the urban context is a strong theme that runs throughout the book.

As David Southwood writes: "It's very unusual to have an architect give the sense that buildings grow out of the street - normally one is presented with an edifice, and the relationship to the street is a mumbled afterthought." Southwood describes the context of Johannesburg as "...hard to understand, difficult to work in, and most often ignored".

Local Studio is seen not only to take urban context into consideration but also the notion of urban place making.

Chapman defines the word "place" as: "The art of merging an area's defining natural attributes with a grid of man-made infrastructure, facilitating convenience and dignity for human beings when they are most vulnerable, namely, while on foot."

The reader will be exposed to one of the first new social infrastructure projects to be built in Hillbrow since the 1970s; a modern interpretation of a traditional Sophiatown building typology, a steel restaurant pavilion built as a temporary structure on the foundations of a demolished lunatic asylum; a bridge, a school, offices, housing and more.

Chapman, who not only runs a practice, but also teaches at the University of Johannesburg, says it was not easy to find the time to write a book.

Chapman's intention with this first publication was to describe an architecture practice's journey, one that saw a lot of "hustling" to achieve its destination of "an architectural product that is present, engaged, hopeful and, ultimately, never boring".

With Masters degrees in Architecture (2008) and Urban Design (2013) from the University of the Witwatersrand, he has conducted research into the reintroduction of "publicness" in the post-apartheid city. Chapman joined Silvio Rech and Lesley Carstens as a professional architect in 2009 and founded Local Studio in Brixton, Johannesburg, in 2012.

Today, the firm employs 15 full-time staff and has a diverse portfolio of built work comprising public buildings, urban design schemes and private houses.

Southwood is a photographer who concerns himself with the medium's production and consumption, human rights and documentary's outer limits. His photos can be viewed at Iziko: South African National Gallery, the Finnish Museum of Photography, Christoph Merian Stiftung, the collection of the Constitutional Court of South Africa, Goethe-institut, the Spier Art Collection, and private collections in South Africa and abroad.
594
The Goethe-institut plans to renew and expand part of its existing netapp infrastructure. purchase of hardware including support from the manufacturer or you as a service provider (ssc), as well as a price for the trade-in of the existing hardware. we also want to extend the maintenance of another system. furthermore, a service for the installation and commissioning of the components is to be offered.

This contract is divided into lots: no

Time limit for receipt of tenders or requests to participate: date: 24/09/2018local time: 12:00

Conditions for opening tenders date: 24/09/2018local time: 12:15

Major organization : Goethe-institut E. V. ZENTRALE

Address : Dachauer Str. 122

Mnchen

80637
595
Gender Bender 2018 looks beyond the regular stories of feminism and empowermentThe discourse is on, but the chasm still remains. Matters related to gender identities, equality and empowerment have, of late, found space among the mainstream issues that thinkers and policymakers are concerning themselves with, on a much deeper level. However, some stories still lay on the fringes, unattended. Gender Bender aims at throwing light on these real-life accounts that are articulated through a series of stimulating arts projects. A collaboration between Sandbox Collective and Goethe-institut/Max Mueller, this initiative is touted as the country's first arts festival that focuses on fresh perspectives of gender. The 2018 edition begins today in Bengaluru. Inclusive and exciting"We have tried to keep the project as inclusive as possible, with no language or cultural barriers considered during the selection process. There are grantees from Kharagpur, Banaras, Delhi, Mumbai, Goa, Hyderabad, as well as the Northeast, while we also have a transgender representation this year. Installations are the focal point of the five-day festival, complete with performances, film screenings, dialogues, illustrated talks, videos, photographs and a plethora of other activities," explains Shiva Pathak, co-founder of Sandbox Collective. The grantee showcase will comprise a total of nine projects.Trial room conundrumMultidisciplinary artist Deepikah R Bhardwaj and anthropologist-storyteller Saakshi Joshi's audio-visual project Trial Room is also an experiential one that comprises zines, poems and an immersive installation. As the name suggests, the installation is about what happens inside a trial room when we are surrounded by mirrors. The project compares a trial room in a legal court to that in a fashion outlet, where people enter to try on an outfit, but often leave with conflicts within, about their own body and appearance, much like being judged in the court. "We are so preoccupied with notions set by our society and the fashion industry that most people, particularly women, end up criticising themselves in their own personal space too, leading to disillusionment in their minds," says Deepikah.Beyond the lilts of lavaniDirector Savitri Medhatul has been researching on the traditional, narrative dance form of lavani for more than a decade, along with writer-narrator Bhushan Khorgaonkar. To Gender Bender, she brings a performance of music, dance, songs and stories, the narrative of which has a contemporary context. Usually considered adult entertainment for men, there are many different layers of lavani that have barely been documented. Looking beyond the stereotypical portrayal of these artistes, Savitri concentrates on the lesser-known 'Sangeet Bari' aspect of the dance form, instead of 'Tamasha'. "Lavani dancers are strong, independent women who are supporting their families and extended families through this art form. Of course, comedy and 'shringar' are the important elements of these performances, but there are also bold and nuanced narratives about menstruation and a host of other subjects that need to be spoken about. Also, not many people know that men too perform lavanis," explains Savitri, whose troupe includes acclaimed artistes Shakuntala Nagarkar and Akanksha Kadam.Focussing on sexual minorities"I am not a professional filmmaker. But written words and visuals somehow felt to be a more appropriate medium to convey the story I want to tell people," says artiste-activist Santa Khurai. A nupi maanbi (meaning an indigenous Meitei transwoman) from Manipur, Santa has been working on issues related to gender and sexual minorities for the past 15 years. Her documentary film, titled Nawa, revolves around the life of Ate?, a 13-year-old a Meitei trans-boy. The plot is a reflection of the experiences of non-conforming trans-children of Manipur, who have never received critical attention. "The remote areas of the Northeast are still detached from the other parts of the country in many ways. The film is an attempt to bridge that gap - through stories, be it one of discrimination or empowerment," Santa explains.Other highlightsFilmmaker-writer Paromita Vohra will talk about the triplets that should never be separated - love, sex and feminismA talk show, featuring writer-historian Ramachandra GuhaJasmine Walk - an intimate performance by Ajithlal SivalalDrawing Home - a visual story by Ita MehrotraStories of Invisible Labour -an installation by Jinal SangoiKadak Collective - a curated set of graphic storiesHer-story - a short film by Nairita Thakurata and Sreecheta DasLooking back, Hidimba, Krishna-a short film about the works of Hyderabad's The Surabhi Theatre by Padmaja Varma, Chenna Kesava, Alekhya, and Hansa ThapliyalBhaya Bhakthi,a large textile-based installation by Pranav Sreerag
596
the provision of services for the operation of the central service desk (hotline), For troubleshooting it services at 150 locations worldwide, For supporting the central it in procurement and dispatch of it equipment to 150 locations worldwide, For development and rollout of it services for 150 locations of the client worldwide. Further details on the subject of the invitation can be found in annex c.1 specifications.

This contract is divided into lots: No

time limit for receipt of tenders or requests to participate: Date: 21/09/2018local time: 12:00

Major organization : Goethe-institut E.V. ZENTRALE

Address : Dachauer Str. 122

Mnchen

80637
597
Framework contracts for printing services

these are standardized templates, Which are reprinted again and again. The delivery of prints takes place on demand, Within 10 working days from call. Shipping usually takes place at one or two addresses within germany. The information in the price lists for the individual items must be observed. All further requirements can be found in the price sheet for lot 1, Appendix a.2.1.

This contract is divided into lots: Yes

time limit for receipt of tenders or requests to participate: Date: 29/08/2018local time: 12:00

conditions for opening tenders date: 29/08/2018local time: 12:30

Major organization : Goethe-institut E.V. ZENTRALE

Address : Dachauer Str. 122

Mnchen

80637
598
 The Goethe-institut will conduct the Goethe Super League (GSL) for school students in Tamil Nadu -- from August 1 to August 24 -- to foster their interest in football and provide them an opportunity to showcase their talent.This is the third consecutive year that the GSL is being organised. "In the past years, we conducted the matches only in Chennai, as part of German Students' Week celebrations. But this year, we wanted to take football to the state-level and involve more students in the game and bring out talent. We have a surprise prize that students will know of by the end of the tournament," said Goethe-institut language department coordinator Susanna Magesh. The tournament, organised in partnership with Rotary Club of Madras East, will be held in four zones in the state - Madurai, Trichy, Coimbatore and Chennai. The state-level final will take place in Chennai. Sixteen boys' teams and eight girls' teams are expected to participate in the matches in each zone.
599

When a security guard overhears a conversation between two men in his office, he is initially shocked to realize that they are gay. How he grapples to understand their relationship and how the couple themselves choose to be open about it forms the core of Santosh K's Tamil short film 'Eyal'.oIt deals with the guard's curiosity and confusion and shows a common man's perception of the issue,o says 33-yearold Santosh. oIt also shows the gay man openly talking about his relationship and who he is.oThe 12-minute film is one of severalshorts,featurefilms and documentaries exploring sexuality and gender diversity that willbeshowcased at'ReelDesires: Chennai International Queer Film Festival (CIQFF) 2018', which will be held from July 27 to 29 at Goethe-institut / Max Mueller Bhavan.The principal organisers of CIQFF 2018 are Orinam and Goethe-institut, working in partnership with Nirangal, Chennai Queer Cafe (CQC), SAATHII, and East-West Center for Counselling and Training. oIt is the sixth edition of the festival under the CIQFF banner,o says Felix S, a volunteer with Orinam. oThe idea of conducting such festivals came from the fact there are hardly any mainstream spaces to showcase queer films or the work of queer people.oThis year's line-up consists of 32 films from 17 countries, selected from nearly 120 submissions via a community-led review process. They chronicle the global struggle for rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual, pansexual, transgender, gender fluid, intersex, asexual and other queer people; and examine the intersections of queer issues with gender, class, age, religion, poverty and disability.oThis year, we will inaugurate the festival with poetryfilms and reading by trans artist and activist Kalki Subramaniam,o says Felix.One of the highlights of CIQFF is the queer film package from the Berlinale Spotlight, featuring films from Germany, Sweden, Norway, Argentina and Brazil. Feature films to be screened include 'Irattajeevitham' (Malayalam) that explores the story of struggle and acceptance of a trans man by his family and the woman he loves, and 'Ein Weg' (Paths), a German feature centred on a couple, Andreas and Martin, who share the ups and downs of life and gay parenting.On July 28, a panel discussion, 'Intersections and Solidarities', featuring speakers from various social justice movements and corporate diversityinclusion initiatives will be held.CIQFFwindsup on July 29 with 'My Son is Gay', a Tamil film by Lokesh Kumar, which narrates the journey of a young gay man, and his attempts to lead a life where he doesn't have to hide his sexuality.
600
Tenders are invited building an employer marketing

Municipal authority of the city of bremerhaven, baureferat 15.08.18published: 12.07.18

Award procedure: services

Offer period: 27.08.2018

Major organization : Goethe-institut EV - ZENTRALE

Address : 80637 Mnchen Bayern

Country :Germany

Notice type : Tender Notice
601
Thirteen youngsters, all in their teens (aged between 13 and 19 years) from Theatre Lab (Youth) are giving a modern spin to the mythical story of Abhimanyu, by relating the chakravyuha that he was stuck in to the dark web, in a 1.5-hour play, titled The Abhimanyu Project. The children don't just act in it, but have also conceptualised it and written the dialogues.The plot: AB is a young Indian hacker, who works alone in the big city. He has strange dreams that take him back to the myth of Abhimanyu. One day, he is approached by 'three suits' who offer him money to break into a mainframe and assemble information for a shady company. AB agrees to do this. He meets Deaf Girl Devi, a coder, and together they hack and discover something terrifying. Will AB succumb to the chakravyuha?When we asked co-writer and co-director Kirtana Kumar what the inspiration behind the play was, she told us, "Konarak Reddy (musician, co-writer and co-director) wanted to develop something based on the Abhimanyu story, and he came up with the hacker angle. The kids leapt at the idea, since they could relate to it. Their life is completely about the internet and social media, and with the advent of things like the Blue Whale game, they had a lot of questions. I wrote some text for fugues and the kids took it forward, coming up with lines and concepts."During the discussions, the children started thinking about what freedom meant to them and what it is to live and die in the chakravyuha in today's context - in terms of success, failure and giving up. Conversations like this tend to result in a lot of realisations. So, what were some that the young theatrepersons had? "The kids told me that they built on their own confidence through the entire process of conceptualising and practicing the play. It also helped them to build on their ability to opine and challenge social structure, which is really important at their age. Personally, I got a glimpse into what they might be going through. This came about when I wanted a different ending than the kids. They vetoed my idea because they found certain things a misfit in their generation," she says.Despite the seemingly dark theme of the play - that will be staged at Shoonya Centre for Arts & Somatic Practices on July 20 and 21, and at Goethe-institut/Max Mueller Bhavan on July 22 - Kirtana says that it has several songs (that will be performed live by Konarak), and the audience is in for a fun ride, packed with laughs. So, what genre that it fall into? "It's hard to box it into a particular genre. But if I had to call it something, I would call it a drama based on a myth, the tone of which is through comedy and music," says Kirtana, adding, "It's a fun play, with a lot of laughs (the jokes are all written by the kids), and the audience will be caught by the narrative."
602

It was nothing short of a magnum opus. With gigantic LED screens, lavish sets, star performers and celebrated crew members backstage - Kohinoor, a musical directed and composed by musician duo Sourendro and Soumyojit, drew several who's who of the city in its first two shows that took place in a city auditorium recently. Besides city-based dancers and musicians, the show also featured several members from the expat community. Deputy director, American Center, Kolkata, Jay Treloar, was seen as Lord Dalhousie and Sybilla de Uray Ura, an Australian citizen of Hungarian origin, who has been living in Kolkata for many years, was seen as Queen Victoria. "We wanted to create a Broadway-style musical for our city," said Sourendro, adding, "It was our way to celebrate the World Music Day. But after the enormous response from the audience, we are gearing up to stage it again."Great teamworkAlong with Sourendro and Soumyojit, the backend of the production features many heavyweights. Actress Sharmila Tagore voiced the soliloquy of Kohinoor, that is personified as a young girl. The show opened with the baritone narration by Harsh Neotia. "I am associated with Sourendro and Soumyojit for a while now. I have worked with them before. I always find their work interesting," Sharmila said. Sudarshan Chakravorty choreographed a big portion of the musical, while Paramita Maitra designed the Kathak part of it. "It was an outstanding experience. Training and staging over 100 performers is not easy. But it is so satisfying to see it succeed," Sudarshan told us. Diplomats galoreMany diplomats, including American Consul General Craig Hall and wife Meeryung, director, Goethe-institut, Friso Maecker, Russian Consul General, Alexey Idamkin, German Consul General, Michael Feiner, and others were spotted at the do. Chinni Dragon, wife of Jamie Dragon, director, American Center, told us, "The production, acting and costumes were spot on. It is not easy to pull off such a big production in such short time." Celeb spottingFrom musicians, filmmakers, politicians and socialites - both the shows of the musical were enjoyed by several who's who of the city. While director Srijit Mukherji, actors Anirban Bhattacharya and Rudranil Ghosh, musician Raghab Chatterjee and others were seen in the afternoon show, the evening one had several politicians including Subrata Mukherjee, Sujit Bose, Sugata Bose, Dinesh Trivedi and others in attendance. "This kind of musical is not very common in the city. It is really appealing," musician Joy Sarkar told us.
603
And the stage is set for the newest edition of German Spotlight in Bengaluru. Over the past four years, this arts project has facilitated a lot more than just a cultural exchange between India and Germany. It's a discourse between actors, directors and playwrights of two countries that aims at helping the audience "discover the fact that people around the world have more in common than we think". A collaboration between Sandbox Collective and Goethe-institut/Max Mueller Bhavan, the 2018 edition of the initiative will showcase English translations of four German plays in the form of dramatized readings.Debosmita Dam, who is spearheading the project alongside Nimi Ravindran, says, "German Spotlight is a cultural exchange of a different kind. The scripts chosen for the dramatized readings are written by contemporary German playwrights, who are quite excited about their work being presented to the Indian audience. Although there is no set theme for the readings, the stories - which are made accessible through an online bank at Goethe-institut - are interesting and quite relatable." In the past, some of the German Spotlight scripts had been staged as full-length theatre productions in the city. Laced with interactive sessions before and after the act, dramatised readings have been quite popular among theatre lovers of all age groups in the city. "It's a curious storytelling format that the audiences usually find to be more engaging than watching a play at an auditorium, as they can almost visualise the scenes and be part of the experience," adds Debosmita, who is also directing one of the four acts, titled Norway Today. The show is opening on June 30 with the reading of Peer Pleasures, directed by Karen D'Mello. Speaking about the experience, she says, "Rehearsed play readings give a lot of freedom to the actor as well as the director to explore varied modes of acting within the performance. It's a flexible format - something like the experience between writing a short story and a novel. Cut to Peer Pleasures, although it's a German script, the story holds universal relevance. The plot is set in 2006, when SMS was the preferred mode of communication. It was fun to work around the basic emojis of that time." The cast of this play includes artistes Honey Raza, Nisha Abdulla, Pranay Pandey, Sneha Ram, Vishnu Narain and Sunayana Premchander. The four plays...Peer Pleasures - directed by Karen D'MelloThe play is about six university students struggling to find their way through their dreams, their longing for love and their insecurities in the quest for something permanent.Nightblind - directed by Kanchan BhattacharyyaIt deals with issues of familial discord, friendship and abuse in a relationship from a young and urban viewpoint.The Jazz Conductor - directed by Lekha NaiduThe play speaks of music and war and hope. It brings to life the romance and nostalgia of the Jazz age, love for theatre and the good-old family amid unspeakable horrors.Norway Today - directed by Debosmita DamThis story is essentially a conversation between two young people, who belong to a generation where most of their interactions happen through technology.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com
604
Tenders are invited Guard and security service Goethe-institut paris

Goethe-institut paris 23.07.18published: 20.06.18

Award procedure: Services

Offer period: 23.07.2018

Major organization : Goethe-institut PARIS

Address : 75116 Paris Bayern

Country :Germany
605
Tenders are invited service picture agencies

Goethe-institut e.V. - zentrale 24.07.18published: 19.06.18

Award procedure: services

Offer period: 24.07.2018

Major organization : Goethe-institut EV - ZENTRALE

Address : 80637 Mnchen Bayern

Country :Germany

Notice type : Tender Notice

Open date : 2018-07-24
606
Tenders are invited fernwrme connection indoor swimming pool vogelsang and strand renovation sachsenstrae to frankenstrae

Goethe-institut e.V. - zentrale 24.07.18published: 19.06.18

Award procedure: construction services

Offer period: 10.07.2018

Major organization : STADT SOLINGEN

Address : 42719 Solingen Nordrhein-Westfalen

Country :Germany

Notice type : Tender Notice

Open date : 2018-07-10

Tender documents : T435458319.html

[c] 2018 Al Bawaba (Albawab
607
At -20 degrees C, the temperature was freezing cold when Andre Lutzen visited Arkhangelsk in the beginning of March a few years back. The Germany-based photographer was visiting the city located in north European Russia for an artist residency. But the frigid clime, the bleak naturescape and warm interiors of the homes of its citizens would spur Lutzen to start a photo series, one that would document climate change and the effect it has on the lives of people.oArkhangelsk is very close to the north Polar region, and I was curious about how people there created their lives in a place that sees winter for five months,o Lutzen says. Starting in 2014, the idea eventually evolved into a three uyear long project that covered two more cities located diametrically opposite Arkhangelsk: Kochi, India and Khartoum, Africa.The photoseries, titled Living Climates: A Tale of Three Cities, was launched in Bengaluru last week. oKochi has a relentless monsoon season and Khartoum, located in northeast Africa, is literally a desert with temperatures hitting 55 degrees C. I chose these three cities because they experience extreme climates which are only getting more extreme,o he says.While climate may be the core subject of the series, the images, as Lutzen continuously points out during the conversation, are really about people and the innate human ability to survive and thrive even in hostile climate. As a documentor of moments, it is the details that capture Lutzen's fascination. A photograph of a Russian couple in the drawing room of their small flat, for instance, catches your attention for the chemistry between the couple as well as for the intricately-patterned carpet hung on the wall to keep the room warm. Another one captures a young couple, where the man sits wearing a tee and pink underwear with Heath Ledger's Joker face tattooed on his inner thigh. oThese small details tell a lot about its inhabitants and for me that is how a photograph comes alive,o notes Lutzen whose style as a photographer is to silently watch the scene and let his models do their own thing. oI capture all my pictures on film, which means I am not going click-clickclick so I have to be careful about what I shoot,o he says.The Kochi part of the project happened when Lutzen visited the city during his residency at the 2016 Kochi Muziris Biennale. Shot inside homes where the paint is peeling off walls, and on streets where 'tarpaulin covers can resemble the face of a ghost,o the images don't celebrate poverty, instead they show a side that's sombre and intimate. oI either stopped people on the streets or knocked on doors of houses to capture these images,o he says.When the Kochi series was displayed at URU-Art Harbour, Lutzen was amused with the reactions his work received. oI had taken photos of an old couple. So on the first day of the exhibition, I was surprised to see their entire family there,o he recalls.Documenting three cities with different cultures entails learning about dissimilarities but as Lutzen notes there are certain behaviours that bind people across the globe. oI found people hospitable everywhere I went. And while we are on climate change, what's noteworthy is that most people who live in these cities are not too bothered by climate change. They consider the city their home and just adapt to the weather,o he wryly notes.Living Climates: A Tale of Three Cities will be on display at the Goethe-institut/ Max Mueller Bhavan, Indiranagar, till June 10.
608
Goethe Villa is reopening with a selection of cultural events as the former colonial building is transformed into the Goethe-institut or Goethe-institut in German.

With its opening in June this year, Goethe Villa in Yangon becomes one of the most beautiful of the 160 or so Goethe-instituts around the world.

The villa opens with a musical performance on 8 June, then will see 'Dark Whispers' - a photo exhibition by Beatrice Minda, a film concert 'Mya Ga Naing' and a Berlin Club Night.

The building has a long history, including housing General Aung San's independence party.

The colonial residence set in the small park at the end of Kabar Aye Pagoda Road is a particularly splendid example of the private villas which emerged around the 1920s in Rangoon. The final years of the First World War signified the golden, economically most successful era of the city.

At the time Yangon was one of the most important ports in the British empire where the riches of Burma - mainly rice, teak and other desirable tropical woods - were shipped all over the world.

The small number of foreign businesspeople - invariably Europeans, Chinese, Indians - who quickly acquired a fortune in this economic boom built grandiose houses like this one in the green, often jungle-like suburbs of Rangoon. Judging by the coat of arms to be seen on the gable, in our case the owner of the villa was probably a European.

Yet as early as early 1920s the house was purchased by the Chinese merchant Chan Chaw Paing who adorned its ground floor with those Chinese stylistic elements which have now been restored to their full glory.

The major downturn came with the Second World War and the Japanese attack on Yangon and British Burma. In 1942 many rich foreign families fled Rangoon alongside the retreating British army, heading to China and India. The owners of the villa were no exception, and it stood empty until the end of the war.

In early 1945 General Aung San turned the house into the headquarters of his independence party, the Antifascist People's Freedom League (AFPFL), a coalition between the army and various leftist political groups. Until the assassination of Aung San in July 1947 the villa constituted an historical space of paramount discussions and meetings, resulting in the resolutions and demands for complete independence from the colonial government.

After being granted independence, and particularly after the split within AFPFL, the house lost its political significance in favour of the new government headquarters, the Secretariat. A few months prior to independence the country's first prime minister U Nu is said to have lived with his family at the rear end of the house.

A new chapter began for the villa with the establishment of the new State Academy of Arts during the first years of General Ne Win's dictatorship. From 1967 until 2006 state-run art education took place in the grand parlour of the villa; the longest acting director was the Dresden-trained sculptor Soe Thint. Several of the famous contemporary artists in Yangon began their careers here.

During their studies many lived in the side-tract specially built for this purpose. Today the newly built library and auditorium stand in its place. In 2003 the art academy moved to the building called Lim Chin Tsong Palace and in the newly established University of Arts and Culture in South Dagon. Every now and then the villa still functioned as a venue for exhibitions by the national artists' association.

The political opening under President Thein Sein's reform government provided an opportunity to pursue the old cause of re-opening a Goethe-institut in Myanmar. The first Goethe-institut in Yangon was founded in 1959, preceding the institutes in Manila, Jakarta and Bangkok as the first in South-East-Asia. However, it was closed-down only few months after Ne Win's military coup in 1962.

The year of 2012 paved the way for negotiating a cultural agreement between Myanmar and Germany, during which the Minister of Culture at the time, U Aye Myint Kyu, offered the villa, in dire need of renovation, as a future venue for the Goethe-institut.

On February 11 in 2014 a ceremonial opening of the institute took place on the lawn of the villa in the presence of the German Federal President at the time, Joachim Gauck.

Then followed negotiations of a long-term lease agreement, the first concerts and art exhibitions of the institute (making it known as the 'Goethe Villa' in the Yangon cultural scene), the decision of the German Foreign Office in Berlin to invest several million Euros in the renovation of the historical villa and the construction of three new surrounding buildings, and the inception of the initial planning by the Berlin architecture firm Gerhartz.

The construction works, executed by the Yangon firm Tokyo Enterprise, began on November 1 in 2016 and were completed in May 2018. The result is one of the most beautiful Goethe-instituts among the 160 centres all around the world.

For the old villa this means a new beginning as a place of learning for young Myanmar citizens who wish to prepare for studies in Germany through our language classes and new library, and as a place of cultural encounters and creative exchanges between artists from Myanmar, Germany and Europe.
609
The Goethe-institut's Goethe Stage is a project that may need a little reintroduction.

Born in late 2016 and with a hand in such notable productions as Rodney Gariseb's theatrical 'House of Paradox', Florence Khaxas' literary 'The Matriarch of Mondesa', Hildegard Titus' post-colonial photography and documentary series 'Us Now' as well as Tapz Munya's HIV advocacy and teen drumming circle at Katutura State Hospital, Goethe Stage aims to facilitate cultural development in Namibia through the funding of projects by upcoming artists hailing from diverse disciplines including but not limited to performance, literature, photography and research.

"The project goes beyond funding and avails the advice and guidance of experts in the arts and culture sphere," says Goethe-institut Namibia's cultural programmes assistant Michelle Namases.

Having granted funding and mentorship to a total of 15 projects thus far, Goethe Stage is presided over by an independent jury consisting of individuals who have volunteered their expertise in arts and culture.

"This year features visual artist and Namibia-German Foundation member Barbara Pirron, multi-disciplinary storyteller, actor, writer and director Veronique Mensah, head of the University of Namibia's department of visual and performing arts Dr Laurinda Olivier- Sampson, college of the arts dance lecturer Trixie Munyama, freelance arts writer and critic Martha Mukaiwa and Goethe-institut Namibia director, Daniel Stoevesandt," says Namases, who adds that jury members change every two years.

Open to anyone interested in developing a project while encouraging interdisciplinary approaches, Goethe Stage's funding ranges from N$3 000 to N$7 000.

"Projects very often require more than this and Goethe Stage encourages artists to explore all channels of funding," says Namases.

"The project intends to contribute greatly to arts development in the country and encourages artists to explore topics and themes relevant to the arts and culture sphere in Namibia, the nation as a whole or society in general. A project must be relevant to the zeitgeist. Projects must be original and innovate in such a way that they challenge the artist and his or her skills."

One such project is theatre maker Nelago Shilongoh's 'Ma Ndili', a collaborative, multi-disciplinary performance and photography project considering Windhoek and its "colonial shadows" through various methods of research concerning pre and post-colonial monuments around the capital highlighted by public performance art alluding to identity, body and memory.

Awarded N$7 000 to assist in realising her project, Shilongoh admits that this did not cover all her expenses but was used to print photos, source materials for the performance piece and studio shoots in the run up to her exhibition of the work later this year.

Though Shilongoh had to source additional funds, she does encourage artists to apply.

"Even though it's not a large funding programme, one can still create small scale work that is of quality, innovative and impactful," she says, adding that she particularly encourages collaboration that "livens and archives the creative and visual culture in Namibia".

While monetary funding is a challenge, Shilongoh is an avid proponent of creativity.

"Monetarily, there isn't enough funding for arts projects in Namibia," she says. "But I think there are resources such as spaces, alternative venues where one can realise a project to some extent. It's important for one to think of realising projects creatively when budgets are tight or unavailable, however difficult."

Wise words from a recent Goethe Stage alumnus, Shilongoh joins a fraternity that is set to include this year's first round of successful projects.

Michael Namaseb's short film 'Sh*t Happens', Dennis Kharuchab's travelling 'Sex and Cellphone', a theatrical piece about teen pregnancy, drop-outs, sugar daddy culture and intergenerational sex to be staged at schools at Otjiwarongo, and Lindiwe Tebele's 'Unconditioned Roots', a unique stitching-free fashion show aimed at highlighting the beauty of African prints and fabrics through the art of draping.

Goethe Stage guidelines and application forms are available at goethe.de/namibia. Electronic applications are accepted via email on stage-windhoek@goethe.de.

Applications for round two close on 30 May with the next round commencing in July and due on 19 August.
610
A parallel exhibition depicting the people and professions of Old Dhaka as well as the architectural heritage of Sutrapur Mohalla in Old Dhaka has begun at a heritage home at Holding No 6, Hemendra Das Road, Bangla Bazaar, in the city's Sutrapur area on May 11.

Co-organized by Goethe-institut Bangladesh and Urban Study Group (USG), the exhibition aims to showcase the necessity for and value of heritage conservation.

Architect Shamsul Wares, former president of IAB inaugurated the exhibition as the chief guest. He was then accompanied by the special guest of the evening, Khushi Kabir. Dr Kirsten Hackenbroch, Director, Goethe-institut Bangladesh and architect Taimur Islam, CEO, Urban Study Group (USG) were also present during the inauguration ceremony.

Talking to the audience, the speakers emphasized the importance of making accessible new cultural venues in Dhaka city. Opening the doors to places as of yet outside of public awareness may increase our identification with the gems Dhaka city to date has to offer and that are in need of being preserved for future generations.

In February 2017, a Berlin based German photographer Guido Werner visited Dhaka for a photography project on Puran Dhaka's inhabitants. During the visit, Guido Werner took photographs of people from different walks of life and simultaneously their interviews were conducted by volunteers of the Urban Study Group.

The exhibition Puran Dhaka Biographies features portraits of 15 individuals along with their biographies based on those interviews.

The exhibition Gems of Sutrapur showcases the potential of heritage conservation in Puran Dhaka by exhibiting photographs and urban designs on Sutrapur area, the place of the exhibition.

The exhibition remains open for visitors until May 14 from 12:00 pm to 9:00 pm.
611
The number of students enrolling to learn German in the city has seen a rise, with those pursuing engineering and science streams signing up for it, having Germany as a destination for further studies in mind. Affordable and quality education, attractive pay in part-time jobs and favourable placements after the Master's are the main reasons for students to prefer the country.Institutions like Goethe-institut (Max Muller Bhavan), Sprachlingua and Let's Speak Language Training Academy, provide certified courses in German that aim at increasing the students' linguistic competence. Goethe-institut enrolls over 250 students in its beginners level every four to six months. Prabhakar Narayanan, language director, Goethe-institut Chennai, said, "We had more than 3,000 students last year. The number of students applying is on an upward trend, leading to us increasing the number of batches." Sriram, founder of Sprachlingua added, "Most of the students learn German to pursue their higher studies. We have more students for the beginners course this year than the last."Almost every university in Germany expects a knowledge of the language to ensure that the students stay independent. Aditya Raman, pursuing B2 (an advance level) in Goethe-institut said, "Known for its automobile sector, all students aspire to study in Germany because of the opportunities available there. Learning German has made me feel confident."Germany is also preferred for its science courses. Anaam Qureshi, a student of physics, had recently applied for a doctoral course in Neuroscience. "Germany offers a good scope for research with huge grants. Compared to Canada or elsewhere, the tuition fee is less. The universities I applied to did not ask for compulsory knowledge of German, but mastering three levels in the language is an advantage," she said.Devapriya, a final year engineering student, added that the country provides a student-friendly environment. "Having pursued my final year project in Germany, I learned a lot about its rich culture and heritage. People there were more courteous and overjoyed when I spoke in German," she said.Applicants from Chennai to German universities have increased, especially last year. Statistics from the German consulate show that about 80-90% of people travelling to Germany belong to the age group of 20 to 28 years, pursuing higher education.
612
Following the ever-dwindling fortunes of the nation's monuments, concerned experts have called for a change of attitude towards such historical buildings.

In particular, they charged governments and it's agencies to wake up to their responsibilities by protecting and regularly maintain the buildings for prosperity rather than demolishing them.

The concerns were raised at a workshop organised by Legacy 1995, a non-governmental organisation in collaboration with the Goethe-institut where issues of protection, preservation and management of the architectural heritage, monuments and historical buildings in Nigeria were discussed.

Speaking at the workshop the director, National Commission for Museum and Monuments, (NCMM), Aliyu Abdu, emphasised on the challenges faced by the National Commission for Museum and Monuments stressing that, promoting historical monuments in Nigeria should be a major initiative by the government instead of demolition.

He stated that there is the needs for improve funding for such projects by government, companies and non-governmental institutions to uplift the state of tourism in the country.

He said; "We recall the tragic demolition of the Olaiya House, also known as Ilojo Bar and Casa do Fernandez on Tinubu Square in Lagos. This demolition has aroused a great public concern on the condition and future of heritage monuments, which also stands as a means of promoting tourism in Nigeria".

Participants at the workshop include, Barrister Emeka Onuegbu, Director-General NCMM, Olusomi Delano, Delano Architects, Aduke Gomez, Morayo Koleosho along with other professionals and stakeholders who contributed in the examination of the existing laws and policies protecting historical buildings and monuments.

Also speaking the Vice president Legacy 1995, Mrs. Kofo Adeleke urged the state government and stakeholders to get more involved in improving the availability and funding of historical buildings and sites.

"I encourage various stakeholders to adopt clearer roles and responsibilities, increase the knowledge and visibility of historical buildings and monuments and also create more opportunities for local initiatives based on history and tourism. The development of professional skills for restoration is vital", she said.

She further said that the government should set up funds, which could be used to maintain the buildings in their normal state.

According to her, there is the need for the development of professional skills and capacity building necessary for restoration and preservation of monuments as well as putting in place the necessary improvements in the funding of historical buildings and sites.
613
Photographs are silent, yet they scream human truths. They have the ability to bypass language in a way that can connect a story with people all around the world. They offer visual narratives that sometimes give a voice to marginalised communities, which are silenced, or question and investigate standards in society.

The Goethe-institut Pakistan, in collaboration with the Amin Gulgee Gallery, presented 'Outsiders,' a curated event of multimedia series showcasing the intense outbreak of cultural activity as part of the 'Brilliant Dilletantes' subculture in the 1980s in Berlin and across Germany. The exhibition presented the energy of the subversive punk movement through photographs.

The Pakistani show within the 'Outsiders' exhibition investigated counter-cultural expressions in the country from the 1970s to present day, as witnessed in diverse creations and repetitions. These were then presented through the lens of social and political activism in art, the subversion of gender roles as explored through various mediums.

Goethe-institut Pakistan Director Stefan Winkler told The Express Tribune, 'For me, it was clear from the beginning that bringing this very specific exhibition to Pakistan would need a counterpart, a response, a connection to the Pakistani scene. So, I was very happy when Gulgee agreed to form a curatorial team, including Zarmeene Shah and Zeerak Ahmed, to explore sub or counter cultures in the Pakistani context and to connect the questions raised by both exhibitions.'

Lack of cultural policy heavy on Pakistani showbiz

The programme was anchored by the international touring exhibition Geniale Dilletanten - Brilliant Dilletantes - which is a term used to announce a concert held in Berlin's Tempodrom in 1981. The work displayed images of seven punk bands that emerged in Germany in the early 1980s.

During the era of upheaval in 1980s, Germans in all the arts explored new innovative forms and experimented with new ways of expression. Alongside the selection of bands, a collection of audio samples, photos, posters, texts, videos and objects provided an overview of the subculture at the time.

Karachiites get a glimpse of Japanese culture

The exhibition aimed to prompt a series of questions that investigated the idea of counter-cultures in the Pakistani context.

Art in Pakistan during the 1980s emerged more from an economic, political, social and religious context rather than a particular movement that can be defined as easily as punk.

The dictatorial government of General Ziaul Haq that overthrew the democratic government of Zulifikar Ali Bhutto initiated an important period in Pakistani art. Zia's policy of censorship regarding visual arts formed the phase of Pakistan's artistic discourse. The 11 years of Zia's regime from 1977 to 1988 is seen as one of the darkest periods of Pakistan's artistic history. Every kind of art that referred to any form of political or social issue was censored.

Sculptor Gulgee, who has for more than two decades exhibited his work extensively both at home and abroad, said, 'The situation is much more complicated now because how do you define Pakistani culture?'

Under attack: Promoting culture can help inculcate tolerance in society

'Before you define subculture and counter culture, you have to define culture itself and that is very problematic when you get to Pakistan,' he continued.

'Ever since the Zia-Bhutto era, Pakistan has been navigating between these two polarising figures and we have been dealing with this pendulum swing either way every few years. You really don't know where you stand,' he believed.

Gulgee said the art movement in Pakistan came about after years of dictatorship when we 'exploded' from having Islamisation down our throat.

He compared what was happening in Germany in the 1980s to the early fashion shows starting in Karachi in the 1990s because it reminded him of 'the crazy, exuberant scene where everyone was doing their own thing' from fashion, hair, music videos, photography to modelling.
614
 The UAE Board on Books for Young People, UAEBBY, and Goethe-institut Gulf Region have announced that the 7th edition of their annual cultural collaboration, 'Books Made in UAE', will focus on silent books, highlighting their effectiveness as a mine of information and imagination.

The textless books are proving to be more popular and more powerful than ever before in helping to stimulate children's imaginations, as both the quantity of its practitioners and the quality of their creations increases.

A four-day workshop for 13 UAE-based artists will be conducted by multi-award winning German illustrator Katrin Stangl at the 1971 Design Space at Sharjah's Flag Island from 5th 8th May, where the participants will be given the opportunity to develop their own silent book ideas.

The annual UAEBBY and Goethe-institut Gulf Region project, sponsored by Sharjah-based cultural initiative Knowledge without Borders, brings international experts to the UAE to expand the reach and ability of Emirati authors and illustrators of children's books.

In the run-up to the workshop, the participants have been encouraged to think about topics that are connected to their everyday lives, such as special days celebrated in the UAE, animals living in a desert environment, myths, legends, individual experiences, famous places, or a collection of ideas and topics.

The workshop advice to students is to think 'small and simple' because the pictures will tell the true story and provide all the content that is needed.

Author and illustrator Katrin Stangl has won a host of some of the world's most respected accolades including the Hans-Meid-Preis fur Buchillustration and received the bronze medal in the "Schonste Bucher aus aller Welt" (World's Most Beautiful Books). Her latest publications, 'Die Hauskatze ist selten eine Weibe' (The Cat is Seldom White), and 'Schwimmt Brot in Milch?' (Does Bread Swim in Milk?), have received rave reviews.

Ms Stangl will work with the students on their drawing techniques and give them advice for drafting and finishing the pages. By the end of the course, every participant will have a complete storyline and at least two double-pages in full color.

Marwa Al Aqroubi, President of the UAEBBY, said: "Silent books are an excellent medium to inspire children to use their imaginations, conveying a story in its simplest terms without the need for text to portray the same plots, messages and characters.

"Pictures and illustrations are universal, which not only helps children comprehend the stories relevant to their own community, it opens doors and bridges the gaps to other culture."

Highlighting the importance of the UAEBBY and Goethe-institut collaboration, Fareed Majari, General Manager of the Goethe-institut Gulf Region, said, "The 'Books Made in UAE' initiative is a wonderful chance to reinforce the relationship between German and UAE culture and enjoy a partnership where both nations can benefit from the others' experience. The Gulf region is particularly important in helping us to continue that mutual cooperation, especially in Sharjah where this project has enabled us to work with some of the most talented up-and-coming artists looking to make their own mark in children's literature."

'Books Made in UAE' supports the development of a sustainable local children's book industry by training young and aspiring authors and illustrators in the creative process of producing children's books in Emirati Arabic language. A group of the world's leading authors and illustrators have participated in organising the project's workshops in previous years. By 2013, six books, which were produced in the workshops were published and sold. In 2016, the project saw the publication of two books that were created in the 2014 workshops.
615
After raising a petition against the demolition of Olaiya House, also known as Ilojo Bar and Casa do Fernandez, on Tinubu Square in Lagos, Legacy, a non-governmental organization involved in protecting and raising awareness of historical buildings is planning to address issues concerning protection, preservation of architectural heritage.

The demolition of the national monument aroused great public concern about the condition and future of our built heritage. It emphasised the urgent need to bring together representatives from the Federal and State governments and owners and custodians of historic building and monuments and other stakeholders to have a dialogue over the issues and challenges over their protection and preservation.

The workshop in collaboration with the Goethe-institut will draw institutions such as the National Commission for Monuments and Museums (NCMM) and the Lagos State Ministry for Arts, Culture and Tourism, along with other professionals. Stakeholders will examine the existing laws and policies protecting historic buildings and monuments, the roles and responsibilities and major concerns and challenges.

The workshop will include presentations on the existing legal position, and be an opportunity to learn from case studies, which reflect both the failures and successes in protecting our built heritage.

Legacy will use the opportunity of the workshop to identify changes required in the way in which the management of our built heritage is conducted, encourage the various stakeholders to adopt clearer roles and responsibilities, increase the knowledge and visibility of historic buildings and monuments.

A statement jointly issued by Vice President Legacy, Kofo Adeleke and Director, Goethe-institut, Friederike Moschel said, the workshop will promote development of professional skills and capacity building necessary for restoration and preservation is vital, as well as necessary improvements in the funding of historical buildings and sites. It will also create more opportunities for local initiatives based on history and tourism.
616
 The seventh edition of Amman Jazz Festival will kick off in Amman on Thursday, with different variations of the music genre expected to be performed during the festival.

The director of the festival Lama Hazboun said this year's festival will present "heavy jazz music", with troupes coming from Spain, Switzerland, France, Germany, Hungary and Sweden taking part in the event.

"We are going to showcase European, American, classical, modern and Latin jazz," she told The Jordan Times on Monday, noting that six performances will be held at Haya Cultural Centre on Thursday, Friday and Saturday.

"After that, the activities will continue in informal venues until May 1," she added.

Commenting on the limited number of activities planned for this year, Hazboun noted that a number of other festivals are going on at the same time.

"Even though this will be the smallest festival of them all, it is the only one specialised in jazz music," she pointed out, noting that the new generation has started to embrace music in all its genres.

"Jordan is now open to all kinds of music, especially those taught at public schools," Hazboun added.

A number of workshops will also be held on the sidelines of the festival, according to the director, who said "this will help further promote the jazz festival in the Kingdom. We will be holding activities in Azraq and Um Qais so that people outside Amman can benefit from it."

Funded by the EU and the EU National Institutes for Cultures, the event is organised in partnership with the embassies of Hungary, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and the Institut Francais, Goethe-institut and Instituto Cervantes.

___
617
Despite the seemingly hazy politics, the European Union (EU) launched on Thursday its summer cultural festival in the Philippines in a bid to bring European culture and heritage closer to Filipinos.

Dubbed as 'Viva Europa 2018,' the event's series of activities will run from April to June 2018 in Metro Manila and Palawan, among others.

EU Ambassador to the Philippines Franz Jessen said Viva Europa 2018 aims to 'highlight the shared cultural values between the EU and the Philippines.'

The European cultural summer also aims to celebrate the best of European dance, film, literature, music, photography/visual arts, and sports.

The EU ambassador said the festival likewise signifies the 'historic ties of the Philippines with the EU, and to highlight the importance of the Philippines as a cultural partner of the European Union.'

''Europa' with all its unique European cultural diversity should stay on in the hearts and souls of our Filipino audiences,' Jessen said in a press conference in Makati City, Thursday.

'Heritage is not defined by political borders. It's beyond borders,' he added.

Viva Europa 2018 is organized by the EU delegation in the Philippines, as well as the Embassies of Austria, Belgium, Czech Republic, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Italy, Netherlands, Poland, Romanio, Spain, Sweden, and United Kingdom.

It is also in partnership with cultural institutes including Goethe-institut Philippine, Alliance Francaise, the British Council, and Instituto Cervantes.

Jessen, together with high-ranking diplomats; Dr. Ulrich Nowak, director of Goethe-institut Philippinen; cultural officers and cultural attaches from the EU member States' embassies; and cultural Institutes were also present at the press briefing.

Sikad Palawan

A major highlight of this year's Viva Europa is the 'Sikad Palawan.' In this initiative, Jessen, and other ambassadors of several EU member-states would join a 200-kilometer bike tour from El Nido, Palawan to Taytay, Roxas, and finally to Puerto Princesa.

The bike tour from April 28 to 30, aims to promote cycling as an illustration of a healthy and climate-friendly lifestyle.

Children in the spotlight

The EU Ambassador said children would also be in the spotlight for this year's cultural festival.

On May 12, from 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., the EU would provide best of European storytelling, games, languages, film, music, and arts and crafts to disadvantaged children in the Museo Pambata, in Manila.

On May 24, a workshop and on-the-spot drawing contest for children, with the theme 'Europa, Kaibigan ko 'to' would be held for children from private and public schools at the Museo Pambata. A children's rights summit would also be conducted on that day.

Musical heritage

A nationwide choir competition organized by the Far Eastern University (FEU) and EU delegation as well as embassy of Spain would also take place on May 26 to 27at the FEU.

On May 30, meanwhile, musicians from Austria, Philippines, Spain, and Sweden would share a stage in a concert.
618
Lufthansa and Brussels Airlines are supporting selected Nigerian artists and others from West Africa on art theme: 'Stretched Terrains - The Mobile Museum on its Way to Dak'Art', a residency programme for young artists from Nigeria, Ghana, Ivory Coast, Senegal and Germany on the move spanning several countries in West Africa.

"Stretched Terrains' is a great platform to show the strengths of Lufthansa and Brussels Airlines in West Africa working closely together and supporting the development of young African talents", Lufthansa General Manager Nigeria and Equatorial Guinea, Robin Sohdi said.

The airlines in a statement said that from April 11, 2018, starting from Lagos, the artist group began a six-week journey with a Lufthansa and Brussels Airlines branded, converted public transport bus, called the Molue Mobile Museum of Contemporary Art.

The artists would cross through Benin, Togo, Ghana, the Ivory Coast and Mali, with a planned arrival in Dakar, Senegal at the beginning of May, right in time for the opening of the13th International Biennial Dak'Art" exhibition.

The artists would be greeted at every stop by the Lufthansa, Brussels Airlines and Goethe-institut teams.

"Furthermore, they will display their artwork at each destination they stop at. Once they reach Senegal, the artists will stay for the Dak'Art" exhibition, until May 07, when they will start their journey back to Lagos. On their way back, they will make stops again at all the previous Goethe-institut locations they visited on the way to the exhibition, planning to arrive in Lagos on May 25," the airlines said.

During their journey, the artists would examine diverse public spaces as communication zones of social, economic and political interaction.

The project, the airlines said, embraces the diversity of practices and perspectives of the participating artists, who will discuss and exchange their artistic interactions as they travel almost 10,000-kilometers on a road trip. The artwork, which will be created in Dakar and during the journey, will be presented and discussed along the way back to Nigeria at the Goethe-institutes and cultural centers at Dakar, Bamako, Abidjan, Accra, Lomé and Lagos.

A Nigerian artist Emeka Udemba, who is living in Germany, is the curator of the project. The whole journey can be followed on the weblog, Stretched Terrains, and on social media with the hashtag #StretchedTerrains "Stretched Terrains - The Mobile Museum on the Way to Dak'Art" is a project by Goethe-institute Nigeria, supported by Lufthansa and Brussels Airlines.
619
The Goethe-institut Nigeria mobile residency, which is to take six artists to Dak'Art in Dakar, Senegal will hit the road from Lagos on Wednesday.

The event, which is in its second edition (it began in 2016), is titled "Stretched Terrains - The Mobile Museum on its Way to Dak'Art".

The project involves a group of young artists drawn from Nigeria, Ghana, Ivory Coast, Senegal and Germany.

The participating artists are Emeka Udemba, Gabriel Goller, Monsuru Alashe, Ray Claver Agbo, Dame Diongue, better known as artist Bay Dam, and Souleymane Konate. The Nigerian artist Emeka Udemba, who lives in Germany, is the curator of the project.

During this leg of the journey, artists will research and simultaneously produce their works, which will be presented at Dak'Art, and at the Goethe-institutes in Ghana, Togo, Cote d'Ivoire and the German-Malian Cultural Centre, Mali.

The group will begin the six-week journey with an old converted public transport bus, the Molue Mobile Museum of Contemporary Art.

They will journey through Benin, Togo, Ghana, Ivory Coast and Mali, before they eventually arrive in Dakar, Senegal.

Their arrival will coincide with the opening of the 13th edition of the International Biennial DaK'Art, beginning in May.

At a press conference in Lagos on Tuesday, the director of Goethe-institut Nigeria, Friederike Moeschel, introduced the project to the audience and gave a background into the MMMoCA's first two trips to Cotonou and Dakar respectively.

She also explained why Goethe-institut continues to collaborate with Mr. Udemba, given the project's particularity in the context of international and cross-cultural collaborations between Germans and Nigerians, as well as other African artists.

According to her, aside from Mr. Udemba, who is the curator of the trip; Monsuru Alashe, another artist going from Nigeria, and Gabriel Goller from Germany, the other artists will be picked up as the journey progresses.

Mr. Udemba described the curatorial outlook as being based on an exploration of how topography influences not just culture but also impacts the social, the economic and the political, with an emphasis on the experimental.

Mr. Udemba emphasised the reasoning behind conceiving a Mobile Museum in 2004, as looking beyond a fixed address but offering a chance for contemporary art to be seen and appreciated by different people across locales.

L to R: Robin Sohdi, Lufthansa General Manager, Nigeria & Equitorial Guinea; Friederike Moeschel, Director, Goethe-institut Nigeria; participating artists Monsuru Alashe and Gabriel Goller; curator Emeka Udemba. Photo Credit: Willie Schumann

L to R: Robin Sohdi, Lufthansa General Manager, Nigeria & Equitorial Guinea; Friederike Moeschel, Director, Goethe-institut Nigeria; participating artists Monsuru Alashe and Gabriel Goller; Derin Ajao, Goethe-institut; curator Emeka Udemba. Photo Credit: Willie Schumann

He said, "Art is also about trying to start up a conversation among people. Their minds and consciousness are awakened. The whole essence of being an artist is the collaboration, and interrogation of other cultures. Such resolve cult

In her closing remarks, Ms. Moeschel thanked project co-sponsors Lufthansa and Brussels Airlines, as well as the media representatives in attendance for their support.

She assured the participating artists and guests of the bus's resilience for the journey and the organisational measures put in place to ensure that the road trip - while not a luxury cruise - would be smooth-sailing for the participants in terms of healthcare, security, and immigration.

The press conference was followed by a tour of the Mobile Museum at the City Hall Car Park. Journalists and all present got the chance to hop on the solar-powered bus, and to see the facilities available to the participants.
620
Goethe-institut washington / 201804 communication campaign germany year usa

the subject of the tender is the development of a communication campaign for the official year of germany 2018/19. Further information: See specifications.

This contract is divided into lots: No

time limit for receipt of tenders or requests to participate: Date: 09/05/2018

local time: 12:00

Major organization : Goethe-institut E.V.

Address : Dachauer Str. 122

Mnchen

80637

Contact Person: Goethe-institut Washington D.C.

Country :Germany
621
Visual artist, Hildegard Titus will on Tuesday open her latest exhibition, titled 'Us Now', which aims to break new grounds by tackling issues perceived to be generally sensitive.

A media release by the Goethe-institut Namibia on Monday, which will host the exhibition, states that it will explore the identity of a 28-year-old Namibia.

The statement noted that Titus will, through a collection of photographs and short films, delve into a conversation that she said Namibia is refusing to have; a conversation about stereotypes, privileges, tribalism, struggles with identities and anger boiling under the surface.

'Namibia is a nation filled with diverse backgrounds and cultures, and a dark and painful past that we still have to deal and come to terms with. It is written in our history textbooks and the colonial images there are all we have as a glimpse into our past - sometimes a painful experience,' said Titus.

The exhibition, which runs until 23 March 2018 in the auditorium of the Goethe-institut Namibia, is open to the public.

Complementing the multidisciplinary exhibition on 13 March at the same venue will be an 'Art Talk' on Interrogating Colonial Imagery through which Titus, as a 'born-free', will discuss her perspective on the topic.

'I will examine the colonial imagery in terms of how 'native people' are represented and how that influences our modern identity and politics in Namibia,' she said.

The exhibition and art talk are both held under the Future Africa Visions in Time (FAVT) initiative. Titus presents her work in the mode of healing and remembering.

Designed and initiated by the Bayreuth Academy of Advanced African Studies and Iwalewahaus of the University of Bayreuth, Germany FAVT aims to examine and instigate discourse on the acknowledgement of a past and its importance in shaping a vision of the future.

FAVT consists of different modes of 'futuring' or envisioning a future through how the different findings of research are portrayed.

While in Windhoek, FAVT aims to through the Goethe-institut Namibia bring together artists, activists and academics for various installations, performances, discussions and workshops on this discourse.
622
What is the first thing that comes to your mind when we say, 'hometown'? Many of us will get reminded of the important monuments that represent our cities, or the garden, or the beach where we played with our friends. Some of us may get reminded of our old houses that have now paved way for commercial establishments. No matter how much ever our hometown changes, the remnants of its soul always live within us, and that is what nine photographers from the city have captured through their lenses and displayed on the walls of the Chintadripet MRTS Station.Conducted by ueberall, the Chennai Photo Biennale (CPB) Foundation and Goethe-institut / Max Mueller Bhavan Chennai, the exhibition is an attempt to bring art to public places, say the organisers.Jonas Feige and Yana Wernicke of ueberall from Germany explain, "About a year ago we had this idea that it would be nice to see the hometown of different photographers through their lenses. We got nine photographers and each of them has looked at their city in different ways. Through this, they are sharing their personal stories and not just the historical monuments that represent a city. It's more into looking at the essence and soul of the city. Some have approached it in a very poetic way." The whole idea of organising the photography exhibition at a railway station is to keep it in a public space and bring art to the general public. "We feel confining art to the walls of an art gallery is just boring, it's too elitist. But here people can see the exhibition on the way to their work. Also, I feel our railways stations are not utilised properly. There's so much space, empty walls, and this is the best way we could utilise it," says Gayatri Nair, Founding Trustee, of CPB.Yana Wernicke adds, "In an art gallery we have a specific kind of crowd and not everybody feels comfortable to just walk in. This is the first time we have done this in India and we plan to take this concpet to different cities as well." The photographers who are part of the initiative include, Sridhar Balasubramaniyam, Saravana Bharathi S B, Swasti Bharti, Sujanya Das, Vivek Mariappan, Mallika Rajkumar, Sharan Devkar Shankar, Varsha Narayanan and Johny Vinoth.Vivek says that for the project he has documented 35 kitchens from around the city. "We feature food, but not where the food is prepared. I wanted to bring stories about people's economic background by capturing their kitchens."Swasti Bharti who was born and brought up in Chennai, shows how in 28 years of her life, she has seen so many changes in not only in the city but also in herself. "I was trying to look at myself from my childhood till now. I captured micro elements that defined me and the place around me. May be because I am a biologist I look at things very minutely. Every time I come back home, I am a new person. I try to find me here. I try to fit in to be the person I once was. This project is an attempt at scratching through the surfaces of the fuzzy remnants of my childhood and through this I have tried to reach for the person I once was," she says. Sujanya Das has been living in Navalur, on the outskirts of Chennai, since last year. His work 'Confined' is a visual interpretation of being trapped within a boundary and not being able to enter or leave. The work visualises the inability to conform to the environs of an area where rapid urbanisation meets rural surroundings, both psychologically and physically. Saravana Bharathi SB who is pursuing Masters in photography has brought stories from Race Course in Guindy. "The Race Course in Guindy has a number of syces and riding boys, who have come from the northern states of India and settled down here. Through these photographs, I have tried to talk about their interaction and intimacy with the horses and how these caretakers have made this new place their second home. When the theme Hometown came, I couldn't think of a better place than the Race Course, since I grew up observing these people," shares Saravana.When Varsha Narayanan moved to London for a year, she realised the importance of sunny Madras, she says. "London is a city where the weather is typically gloomy, I could not stop marvelling at the abundant sunlight, its shadows, reflections and luminous hues on my return to Chennai. All the photos in this series have been taken in my apartment. I have tried to capture an indescribable meditative feeling the light evokes in me, thereby translating it into something that is delicate, intimate and ephemeral."Mallika Rajkumar's photo story portrays dancers who have finished their arangetram after years of formal training in Bharatanatyam. "Through their portraits I wanted to capture and showcase the eternal glory and timelessness of the art form. These dancers have been trained by the Saraswati Gana Nilayam which has been teaching this dance form for the past 80 years in a quaint locality of Triplicane," she says. 
623
Contract notice: regd / 201802 rv teaching (german as a foreign language) for adults

- intensive 8, - intensive 4, - intensive 2 language and culture, - german in the evening, - exam training testdaf.

This contract is divided into lots: yes

Time limit for receipt of tenders or requests to participate: date: 03/04/2018

Local time: 12:00

Conditions for opening tenders date: 03/04/2018

Major organization : Goethe-institut E. V. REGION DEUTSCHLAND

Address : Goethestr. 20

Mnchen
624
Patiala's Qila Mubarak will be hosting the first-ever international contemporary arts forum titled 'Punjab Panorama' on March 3 and 4. Punjab tourism and culture minister Navjot Singh Sidhu on Saturday, said the historic fort will be introduced to history lovers to unlock the huge untapped tourism potential of the state.Chief minister Amarinder Singh would be inaugurating the ceremony along with Ambassador of Greece and the Consul General of Canada. A souvenir book will be launched during the event which will also feature a special programme on March 5 for the visiting dignitaries in Chandigarh where they will be apprised of Pierre Jeanneret's contribution to the city.The event will bring together globally renowned personalities including, artists, museum directors, musicians, historians and curators. It is being organised in collaboration with several embassies and is supported by the Punjab government. Among the participating countries are Greece, Canada, Swiss Arts Council, Germany's Goethe-institut and Asia Society.There would be panel discussions and presentations to explore Punjab's culture and history through artefacts, films and architecture, in the framework of "Punjab as Protagonist" and "Hybrid Aesthetics". The festival will also include representation of five major world museums (Denmark, Greece, UK, USA, Canada), 11 international film artists, 3 international performance artists and 3 Indian performance artists.
625
Tenders are invited for Electrical work / passive it-network (Goethe-institut romania)

Major organization : Goethe-institut RUMNIEN, BUKAREST

Address : Bukarest, Rumnien Kontakt

Country :Germany
626
Ninth Karachi Literature Festival was inaugurated. In her inauguration sheech, AmeenaSaiyid, Chair, Oxford University Press, and Founder/Director, Karachi and Islamabad Literature Festivals said that KLF, launched in 2010, is the Mother of all Festivals in this country as it has given birth to literary festivals in Lahore, Hyderabad, Faisalabad, Gwadar, as well as to music, Sufi, film, and theatre festivals. Inspired by KLF, the Children's Literature Festival (CLF) was launched and 46 have been held so far. The momentum begun by KLF has spread across Pakistan.

AmeenaSaiyid said that KLF is not just an event but a movement. It brings together books, reading, scholarship, and the arts, and celebrates them all. It combines scholarship, culture, and creativity with variety, diversity, colour and vitality. 'There is much to look forward to over the coming two and a half days of discussion, debate, dissent, literature, art, and culture. KLF is like a mini-university, a place where one can interact with some of the most creative minds. It affords an opportunity to an emerging generation of Pakistanis to test their ideas and aspirations for a future divested from the colonial mindset and entering the fourth industrial revolution of artificial intelligence, robotics, machine learning. KLF draws from or touches upon every part of Pakistan' she added.

She told that KLF began and grew as an act of defiance against the forces of repression and intolerance. Today, it has become an Act of Optimism, a Celebration of Hope, a Festival of the Future. Like the great German philosopher and poet Goethe, KLF aims at 'More Light!'

KLF is open to all and free. It brings together authors writing in diverse languages and genres. It features debates, discussions, book launches, readings, signings, comedy, satire, a book fair, theatre, film screenings, music, dance and Mushairas in Urdu, English, and now Sindhi. Always innovating, this year will feature performance poetry, two Debate format sessions, and the great Zia Mohiuddin reciting Shakespeare. We have an Open Mic setup to engage youth in reciting their poems and stories. In order to further impact the community, we have an outreach programme of some authors who are at KLF speaking and engaging with students at universities.

KLF attendance has grown from around 5,000 in 2010 to more than 200,000 in 2017. In 2010, there were 35 speakers/performers. This year, we expect around 250 speakers/ performers.

During this KLF, we will be privileged to hear keynote speeches from historian Francis Robinson; author Noorul Huda Shah; political and diplomatic figure Mani Shankar Aiyar; author, poet, and musician AmitChaudhuri; and TV and theatre icon, Anwar Maqsood.

Four literary prizes will be awarded. The KLF- Pepsi Best Non-Fiction Prize,theKLF- German Peace Prize,The KLF-Getz Pharma Best Fiction Prize, and the KLF-Infaq Foundation Best Urdu Prize.

Additionally, the UBL Literary Excellence Award winners and the Eqbal Ahmad Centre for Public Education Video contest winners will be announced at ceremonieshere.

KLF was co-founded by AsifFarrukhi and myself, and is produced by Oxford University Press, a department of the University of Oxford that furthers the University's objective of excellence in research, scholarship, and education by publishing worldwide.

AmeenaSaiyid thanked all the sponsors including, PepsiCo Pakistan (title sponsor), Pakistan Petroleum Limited (PPL), United Bank Limited (UBL), Consulate General of the Federal Republic of Germany, Karachi, Goethe-institut, Karachi, Alliance Francaise, Embassy of France in Pakistan, British Council, US Consulate General, Karachi, Getz Pharma, Infaq Foundation, Friedrich Ebert Stiftung (FES); Tapal Tea, Careem, Habib University, LUMS, I Am Karachi, Consulate of Italy, Karachi, TV One, News One, TAQ (Tariq Alexander Qaiser).

AmeenaSaiyid also thanked the KLF team for their hard work in putting this festival together: RaheelaBaqai, ZehraNasimHaque, Muniza Ali, SomairQureshi, ZubeidaAhmar, Salman Kazmi, FaryalFarooq, Amman Aziz and his team, Salma Adil and her team, Irfan Ali, Asna Jamal, Faisal Usman, BatoolNasir, and Nadia Ghani. A special thanks was given to team Mediators, Manhattan, and DinshawAvari for facilitating this event.

In the end AmeenaSaiyid said that the Mayor of London, Sadiq Khan, said during his recent visit to Karachi that London was the greatest city of the world and that it was open not only for business and trade but also for culture and tourism. As a citizen of Karachi, in whose streets I have run around and climbed trees, I say that Karachi is the greatest city in the world and IT is open today -for business, culture, and tourism.
627
Fire protection and seismic upgrading of the Goethe-institut athens, Omirou 14-16, Athens; General planning services

the Goethe-institut athens was built in 1978. The building is a reinforced concrete structure and has 2 basement floors and 8 upper floors. Behind the building is a terrace under which there are also 2 basement floors. Next to the Goethe-institut (outside the property) there is a residential building on the left side. On the right side is a parking garage. The aim of the construction project is: - the strengthening of the stability of the building to protect against earthquake effects / the improvement of fire protection in accordance with today~s requirement / the implementation of further measures for a user-friendly building operation. Measures in the context of heritage upgrading include - installation of 2 steel frames and stirrup reinforcement in concrete on the ground floor and 1 og / replacement of the masonry walls bordering the corridor in a continuous plane from 2nd to 7th floor in reinforced concrete wall panels connected frictionally to the columns / in the rear building part: Installation of two steel frames in the outside area parallel to the building. Measures in the context of fire protection rehabilitation include - installation of a sprinkler system in the lecture hall in the 1.ug / conversion of the existing fire alarm system / installation and supplement the fire protection center. Measures in the field of technical equipment include - renewal of the electrical sub-distribution incl. Lighting / renewal of the it infrastructure / renewal of the ventilation devices, Ducts and refrigeration system / renewal of the (drinking) service water system / renewal of the drainage system / construction of a bms system. Project duration: Approx. 20 months project costs (net) for kg 200-600 acc. Din 276: 3 500 000 eur in our own office, With partners in a consortium or with subcontractors, General planning services are to be provided for the following property and specialist planning: Object planning building gem. 33 hoai, Lph 2-9 structural design acc. 49 hoai, Lph 2-6 technical equipment acc. 53 hoai for investment groups 1-7, Lph 2-9 fire protection concept and specialist management fire protection / sigeko / dismantling and disposal there is a gradual allocation of benefits. However, There is no legal claim to the transfer of all benefits. The execution of the construction measures takes place taking into account the use of the building in the ongoing service operation. Any building site-specific construction work must still be developed as part of the planning.
628
As part of the campaign, Embrace our Rivers, carried out by the Goethe-institut u Chennai, there are series of events being organised in the city. One among them was a concert by the National Youth Orchestra of Germany. Impressing the Chennai music lovers were the young musicians from Germany aged between 16 and 19. Their chief conductor, Hermann Baumet, opens up about the orchestra's performances in India, playing pieces in sync with the theme of the campaign, etc. Excerpts.TOURING INDIAThe entire orchestra has been very thrilled about coming to India. They felt very honoured to have gotten invitation from India. Unfortunately, in Germany, Indian music is seldom performed.But in Panaji, we got a chance t o attend a festival where several music and dance groups from different parts of India performed. That was a big experience for the orchestra. Altogether, it's been a great tour for us in India. We did five concerts in India u two at the National Centre for the Performing Arts (NCPA) in Mumbai, one in Panaji, another one in Margao (Goa) and finally, in Chennai.SECRET BEHIND THE SUCCESS OF YOUTH ORCHESTRAIf you're a brass player or a timpani player, you actually get that physical feeling of music in you when you play. Also, in Germany there's lot more possibilities to work in classical music than rock, pop or any other genre. Another reason for the success of our youth orchestra is that each of them has an emotional connect with the pieces they play. For example, they feel how Schumann (a German composer and critic) would have composed a particular piece, though it's a 200-year-old composition.PIECES PLAYED IN CHENNAI FOCUSED ON CLIMATE, RIVERSWe practised for about three weeks for our India tour. Particularly for this concert in Chennai, we wanted to have compositions that speak about climate and nature. The first composition was by an Iceland composer called Jon Leifs. And it speaks about glaciers in Iceland. Then we had this composition by Robert Schumann which is about the river Rhine in Germany. Rhine is the most important river in Germany with a lot of history and tales attached to it. It's like Ganges or Indus in India.PLAYING VANDE MATARAM, INDIAN NATIONAL ANTHEMIt was an absolutely great idea to play Vande Mataram and the national anthem of India. Mostly people would ask for traditional music of the touring orchestra. But here a bunch of young musicians from Germany performed something that's Indian. It was special, for, they had a different perspective to the Indian music. Also, people recognised the fact that they took effort to perform something that belongs this country.
629
As it couldn't get the required permission to put together art installations and performances along the Cooum in Chennai, Goethe-institut will now move its art series - 'DAMnedART' -- to an exhibition space. The exhibition featuring video installations, films, large photos, models, animation, drawings and text will be showcased at Lalit Kala Akademi. Curated by Ravi Agarwal from India and Florian Matzner from Germany, DAMnedART "is part of our larger 'Embrace Our Rivers' initiative to engage with questions on urban water through art, culture and crossed-perspectives," said a statement from Goethe-institut.The exhibition will open at Lalit Kala Akademi at 6.00pm on February 2. Over the next few days, Goethe-institut will hold talks and performances by Mischa Kuball, Shweta Bhattad, Gigi Scaria and other artists.
630


After 50 years in a bungalow at Ballygunge Circular Road, Goethe-institut has now shifted to Park Street. The gate opened with a grand partyCONTEMPORARY AND CUTTING EDGEFor the longest period of its existence in the city, Goethe-institut/ Max Mueller Bhavan was tucked in a serene corner on Ballygunge Circular Road. After operating from the sprawling building for more than 50 years, the institute has now shifted to Park Mansion on busy Park Street with a major overhaul of its interiors. In a gala dinner, the institute opened its door to people. While talking about the cutting-edge design of the institute, Friso Maecker, director, Goethe-institut, said, oOur primary idea was to make it a contemporary place that would be in sync with the sensibility of city artistes. We wanted to make it a place where people meet, interact and experiment with new ideas. Architect Hartmut Wurster incorporated this philosophy. The cafeteria here spills out to the library so that visitors can chill out while reading. Lastly, the institute has never been and will never be a judgmental place and our new design reflects that.o With over 4,000 books, 2,000 CDs and DVDs and digital library, it is one of the most loved destinations for the city's bibliophiles.ART, MUSIC AND ALL THAT JAZZAfter the formal introduction, the evening was lit up by lively music. The auditorium was set on fire by Balkan band Al Jawala that came from Germany. While many guests were seen tapping their feet as the wine started flowing, some were seen enjoying the wintry evening on the terrace. Later, citybased jazz musicians of Circuits and Strings enthralled members of the audience who were dining at the cafeteriacum-library area.SPRAWLING CLASSROOMSGuests and representatives of other consulates were seen enjoying the evening. Fabrice Plancon, director of Alliance Francaise du Bengale, which is also located at Park Mansion was spotted checking out the classrooms and libraries. He said, oI think the presence of these two institutes in the same building will encourage the creation of amazing common projects. People from the city will enjoy this unique 'European linguistic and cultural hub' in Park Mansion.o While talking about getting a new neighbour, he quipped, oI'm so ashamed with my German level compared to Friso's French, I will try to take the opportunity to catch a few classes here.oGERMAN SAUSAGES AND BREADSWhile the menu comprised both German and Bengali cuisines, guests were seen enjoying the exotic breads and sausages on offer. However, the German bakery items remained the bestseller at the dessert counter.CITY ARTISTES GALOREFrom filmmakers to painters, art curators and musicians u the evening saw a set of the city who's who at the event. After the formal inauguration, the guests were seen busy bantering on the terrace in several groups. From international films to contemporary art and the LGBTQ movement u the conversation involved all sorts of topics. Interdisciplinary artiste Sujoy Prosad Chatterjee said, oThis is an amazing evening and it's a shame that I have to leave early. But the adda that is going on in this group (with Gaurav Pandey and Debolina) is enriching. Also, I met so many friends after ages.
631
Contract notice: rv office matrial and toner

Delivery of office supplies via online ordering platform as part of a complex corporate structure.

This contract is divided into lots: yes

Time limit for receipt of tenders or requests to participate: date: 19/02/2018

Local time: 12:00

Major organization : Goethe-institut E.V. - ZENTRALE

Address : Dachauer Str. 122

Mnchen

80637

Country :German
632
The Margazhi season may have wound up but the music goes on in many halls across Chennai. And Goethe-institut / Max Mueller Bhavan is also doing its bit to continue the magic by presenting an exclusive concert at the Music Academy on January 25.The 73-piece National Youth Orchestra of Germany will be in the city to perform for Goethe-institut's socio-cultural art initiative 'Embrace Our Rivers', which brings together people and ideas from all horizons to create a new dialogue on water."It is an initiative to create a new dialogue on water in urban areas, as people are turning away from our rivers. As a cultural institute, we want to see what artists can bring to the river," says Seema Massot, project coordinator, Goethe-institut.The theme of the concert is 'Weather and Forces of Nature'. The orchestra - whose members are aged between 16 and 19 -- will play pieces that have been written especially for rivers. Compositional works that deal with forces of nature and weather phenomena would be the focus, and there will be inter-cultural cooperation and improvisation between Indian and German musicians through workshops and presentations."Initially, we had planned a big public art exhibition along the Cooum but that is not happening. Instead, we are now doing the 'Embrace Our Rivers - DAMned Art project' in Lalit Kala Akademi, and the concert by the youth orchestra is the curtain raiser for it," says Massot. "We will have photos, models, and a sense of what it would have been like to have art installations along the Cooum."The exhibition will be on from February 2 to March 4.
633
Contract award notice: Service operation skype-for-business operation

Number of tenders received: 1

Total value of the contract/lot: 605 000.00 EUR

Contractor name : UC POINT GMBH

Contractor address : Kln

Implementing agency : Goethe-institut e.V. - Zentrale

Dachauer Str. 122

Mnchen
634
 Debasish Konar

KOLKATA: The Park Mansion,

which has been a part of the city's

socio-cultural evolution for

over a century now, is all set to

rewrite history on Saturday

when Goethe-institut officially

starts full-fledged operations

from the building. Alliance

Franaise du Bengale already

operates out of the building.

Three floors of Park Mansion

have been decked up to welcome

Goethe-institut. The library

room is almost ready

with new books and racks.

Busts of German scholars will

give the institute an added dimension.

The officials are currently

busy setting up the communication

network and fire

prevention measures.

The heritage building,

which was renovated in 2010 -

its centenary year, has been the

home to Goethe-institut since

July. It has been housing Alliance

Franaise for over seven

decades. It had to be shifted in

1999 after a fire broke out, but it

is back in its old home for the

past three years. However, Alliance

Franaise has shifted its

base to a smaller space - barely

3,500 sq ft - on the second floor.

Earlier, it was spread over

15,000 sq ft space.

Goethe-institut had been a

landmark at Ballygunge Circular

Road for the last five decades

but it was shifted to the Victorian

confines of Park Mansion

in July. Though German

classes were held since then,

the library remained shut. But

all departments will start functioning

from next week.Goethe-

Institut director Friso Maecker

is now busy with the lastminute

preparations before it

raises its curtain for various

events, discussions, workshops,

concerts and exhibitions.
635
The stock market recorded its sixth consecutive positive session on Thursday on the back of strong buying from institutional investors in heavyweight cement and financial stocks.

Most blue chips within the cement sector reached close to their upper limits as bullish momentum carried on from Wednesday's session played its part in stimulating stock buying.

At the end of trading, the benchmark KSE 100-share Index registered an increase of 224.58 points or 0.56% to settle at 40,371.31.

Rupee weakens against dollar

According to Elixir Securities' analyst Zainul Abedin, Pakistan equities carried the previous momentum and closed positive for the sixth consecutive session with the KSE-100 Index rising above 40,350.

The market exhibited a choppy behaviour until mid-day with the KSE-100 succumbing to mild intra-day profit-taking. Later, institutional buying in blue chips across financial and cement sectors pushed the index higher.

Cement stocks continued their upward march and blue chips Lucky Cement (+3.5%) and DG Khan Cement (+2.8%) contributed to KSE-100's rise while small-caps Pioneer Cement (+5%), Cherat Cement (+4.4%) and Dewan Cement (+6.3%) also had a field day. They settled at or near their upper price limits.

Meanwhile, the management of Engro Polymer and Chemicals (-3.3%), in a notification, approved capital expenditure of about Rs10.3 billion for addition of a new PVC plant and VCM plant debottlenecking. The announcement of a higher percentage of capital expenditure by issuing right shares (52%) dented investors' sentiments and dragged down the stock.

'We expect the market to trade volatile tomorrow (Friday) with likely window dressing in illiquid stocks as we head into the year-end,' he added.

JS Global analyst Maaz Mulla said the market maintained its upward trend as flows in cement, steel and gas utilities' stocks kept investors' sentiment intact.

The market hit an intra-day low of -115 points and a high of +317 points to close positive at 40,371. On the news front, the State Bank of Pakistan (SBP) expressed optimism that the current account deficit may be contained to a manageable level in coming months due to the recent measures taken to arrest the decline in foreign exchange reserves.

Traded volumes improved 20% to 239 million shares while traded value surged to $82 million. Top stocks were WorldCall Telecom (+0.34%), Dost Steels (-4.10%) and TRG Pakistan (+1.04%).

Sui Southern Gas Company (+5%) closed at its upper circuit on the back of news that the government was likely to offer an incentive of about Rs31 billion to the company.

Cement stocks also continued to be in the limelight as bottom-fishing continued with DG Khan Cement (+2.83%), Lucky Cement (+3.45%), Cherat Cement (+4.43%), Kohat Cement (+5%) and Pioneer Cement (+5%) remaining the major movers.

Engro Polymer (-3.25%) gave up the intra-day movement to close at Rs30.06 after it notified its expansion plans. Investors apparently remained unwelcoming to the potential rights issue by the company.

'We advise investors to avail themselves of opportunities in cement, steel and oil sectors,' he added.

Cultural exchange: Goethe-institut Pakistan celebrates 60th anniversary

Overall, trading volumes increased to 239 million shares compared with Wednesday's tally of 199 million.

Shares of 355 companies were traded. At the end of the day, 202 stocks closed higher, 135 declined while 18 remained unchanged. The value of shares traded during the day was Rs9.04 billion.

WorldCall Telecom was the volume leader with 55.08 million shares, gaining Rs0.01 to close at Rs2.98. It was followed by Dost Steels with 18.9 million shares, losing Rs0.44 to close at Rs10.30 and TRG Pakistan with 12.4 million shares, gaining Rs0.32 to close at Rs31.14.

Foreign institutional investors were net buyers of Rs58 million during the trading session, according to data compiled by the National Clearing Company of Pakistan.
636
Tenders are invited for Carpentry work at the Goethe-institut dublin

Call for applicationscarpentry work in the Goethe-institut myanmar 19/1/18

Major organization : Goethe-institut DUBLIN

Address : Dublin, Ireland Kontakt

Country :Germany
637
The concluding ceremony of the "Human Rights through Cinematography" film festival held here at Lok Virsa, co-organized by European Union, the United Nations and the Embassy of Switzerland.

Cosmopolitanism, another documentary was also showcased at the concluding ceremony which marked the conclusion of the "Human Rights through Cinematography" film festival.

Running from November 23 to December 10, this film festival travelled to different cities including Gujrat, Islamabad, Karachi, Lahore, Multan, Peshawar, Quetta and Rawalpindi.

The screenings were held in embassies, UN Information Centre, Goethe-institut, universities and Pakistan National Council of Arts, as in previous editions, with the support of the European Union.

A highlight of the film festival was the participation of young students of universities at all venues especially in many universities across the country. The human rights through cinematography film festival presented 25 documentaries on human right violations across the world.

The screenings on the Human Rights Day were followed by panel discussion on "Defending Human Rights in troubled times: Dignity and Adversity".

Jan Figel Special Envoy of the European Union, Rabiya Javeri Agha, Federal Secretary Ministry of Human Rights, Isabelle Gattiker Director of the International Film Festival and Forum on Human Rights, Juan Lozano Director Crime Hunters, Sara Belal Founder of Justice Project Pakistan and Christine Chung Human Rights Officer at the Office of the High Commissioner of Human Rights participated in the panel discussion.
638
Human Rights Day was observed by the launch of the "Human Rights Film Tour" and the closing ceremony of the "Human Rights through Cinematography" film festival on Sunday here at Lok Virsa. The closing event was co-organized by European Union, the United Nations and the Embassy of Switzerland.

At this occasion the International Film Festival and Forum on Human Rights in Geneva (FIFDH), the Swiss Federal Department of Foreign Affairs (FDFA) and the United Nations Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) joined forces to launch an international tour "Human Rights Film Tour" spread over 45 countries including Zimbabwe, China, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Tunisia, Nigeria, Brazil, Cuba and Guatemala to celebrate the 70th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.

Swiss embassies all over the world will screen Crime Hunters between 10 December 2017 and 10 December 2018, by organizing events based on the FIFDH's "one film, one topic, one debate" format: screenings followed by debates with local NGOs, journalists, students and activists.

Cosmopolitanism, another documentary was also showcased at the ceremony which marked the conclusion of the "Human Rights through Cinematography" film festival.

Running from November 23 to December 10, this film festival travelled to different cities including Gujrat, Islamabad, Karachi, Lahore, Multan, Peshawar, Quetta and Rawalpindi.

The screenings were held in embassies, UN Information Centre, Goethe-institut, universities and Pakistan National Council of Arts, as in previous editions, with the support of the European Union.

A highlight of the film festival was the participation of young students of universities at all venues especially in many universities across the country. The human rights through cinematography film festival presented 25 documentaries on human right violations across the world.

The screenings on the Human Rights Day were followed by panel discussion on "Defending Human Rights in troubled times: Dignity and Adversity".

Jan Figel Special Envoy of the European Union, Rabiya Javeri Agha, Federal Secretary Ministry of Human Rights, Isabelle Gattiker Director of the International Film Festival and Forum on Human Rights, Juan Lozano Director Crime Hunters, Sara Belal Founder of Justice Project Pakistan, and Christine Chung Human Rights Officer at the Office of the High Commissioner of Human Rights participated in the panel discussion.

On the same day, United Nations in Pakistan launched the Urdu and Pashto versions of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and UN Charter and Statute of the International Court of Justice in Urdu language.

Jean-Francois Cautain, Ambassador of the European Union to Pakistan on the occasion said: "Human Rights are violated all around the world. They cannot never been taken for granted. They need to be cherished and defended. The Human Rights Film Festival, especially with the screenings in universities, is an excellent tool to raise awareness about the different facets of Human Rights and to engage students in constructive debates".

Resident Coordinator UN and Acting Director UNIC Neil Buhne said "As we enter in the 70th year of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, what was inspirational in 1948 is increasingly a reality. The Declaration asks us to stand up for our own rights and those of others." He hoped that these screenings of films and translated versions of the UDHR and UN Charter in local languages will help Pakistani people, particularly youth to deepen their understanding of their rights.

The film festival was organized in partnership with embassies and High Commissions of Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, the European Union, the Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, Switzerland and with the International Film Festival and Forum of Human Rights, the Goethe-institute, the Pakistan National Council of Arts and the United Nations Information Centre in Islamabad.
639

Tenders are invited for Carpentry work at the Goethe-institut myanmar

Major organization : Goethe-institut MYANMAR

Address : Dublin, Ireland Kontakt

Country :Germany

Email : sabine.speer@goethe.de

Notice type : Tender Notice
640
 Fearing censorship, filmmakers in the land of 'Kama Sutra' are struggling to shoot a kissing scene in Tamil Nadu, said actor Arvind Swamy, while speaking in the presence of several foreign diplomats at the launch of the 15th Chennai International Film Festival (CIFF) on Thursday. The actor indirectly tore into the BJP, in government at the Centre, saying intolerant voices in the country are growing louder and encouraging violence against artists.Swamy was addressing city film buffs who had turned up to watch the Palme d'Or 2017 winner 'The Square' (Sweden), directed by Ruben AaAaAeAOstlund. Swamy, who has work with Mani Ratnam multiple times, said even 2,000 years after Vatsyayana wrote 'Kama Sutra', film-makers in the country cannot show a couple making love."When I was growing up, I saw many wonderful Tamil films. But when I look back, a lot of commercial films depicted violence against women more graphically than they depicted love. We never got to see a loving couple share a kiss or make love," said Swamy adding that the society has become more closeted."Also, the voices of intolerance are growing louder," the 'Bombay' actor said, making a reference to death threats given to artists recently. Addressing "some sections" that have been threatening artists, Swamy said, "Is your belief, whatever it may be, so fragile that you are scared of art destroying it?"While Swamy lamented incidents of violence against artists, organisers of the festival and film industry representatives rued that the ?50 lakh fund from the state government for the weeklong festival was insufficient. Suhasini Mani Ratnam, one of the organisers, said, "The Karnataka government, which offers a fund of ?3.5 crore for the yearly festival held there, has promised ?10 crore from next year."South Indian Film Chamber of Commerce president L Suresh demanded a fund of at least ?2 crore from the Tamil Nadu government.The guests at the event organised by CIFF director Thangaraj included Taipei economic and cultural centre (Chennai) director general Charles Chao-Cheng Li, Kent May from the US consulate, Australian consul general to South India Sean Kelly, Alliance Franaise (Chennai) director Pierre-Emmanuel Jacob, Goethe - Institut (Max Mueller Bhavan) director Helmut Schippert and German consul general (Chennai) Achim Fabig.
641
The ninth Karachi Literature Festival (KLF) will be held on February 9,10, and 11, 2018 at the Beach Luxury Hotel, Karachi. KLF brings together and celebrates Pakistani and international authors writing in diverse languages.

The festival will feature talks, panel discussions, readings, book launches, English and Urdu mushaira, satire, author signings, performing arts, film screenings, book fair, literary awards, and a food court.

According to Ameena Saiyid OBE,Managing Director, Oxford University Press (OUP), and Founder/Director, Karachi and Islamabad Literature Festivals, and Co-founder, Children's Literature Festival, at a press conference at the Arts Council. Around 131 Pakistani and 30 international authors and speakers from nine countries will participate in the upcoming KLF, around 19 book launches and more than 60 sessions are planned for the festival.

Ameena Saiyid gave an overview of the four prizes instituted by KLF in collaboration with corporate entities and foreign missions. These annual prizes are awarded to books in the categories of fiction, non-fiction, peace, and Urdu. The books are assessed by panels of juries comprising Pakistani academics, critics, and writers. This year the prizes include KLF-Pepsi Non-Fiction Prize, KLF-Getz Pharma Fiction Prize,KLF Peace Prize (Consulate General of Germany), and KLF-Infaq Foundation Urdu Literature Prize.

The KLF-Pepsi Non-Fiction Prize of Rs 250,000 goes to the best non-fiction book originally written in English by a Pakistani or Pakistan-origin foreign national. The books long listed for this prize include Lahore in the Time of Raj by Ian Talbot and Tahir Kamran, How Pakistan Got Divided by Rao Farman Ali Khan, A History of the Judiciary by Hamid Khan, Urban Traditions and Historic Environments in Sindh by Anila Naeem, Imagining Pakistan by Rasul Bakhsh Rais, and Honour Unmasked by Nafisa Shah.

The KLF-Getz Pharma Fiction Prize goes to the best fiction written originally in English. The author (a Pakistani or a Pakistani-origin foreign national) of the best novel or short story collection will be awarded Rs 300,000. The long list of books announced for this prize includes The Golden Legend by Nadeem Aslam, Exit West by Mohsin Hamid, The Party Worker by Omar Shahid Hamid, This House of Clay and Water by Faiqa Mansab, Daddy's Boy by Shandana Minhas, Boy of Fire and Earth by Sami Shah, Snuffing out the Moon by Osama Siddique, and Home Fire by Kamila Shamsie, The KLF Peace Prize of 3000 euros is a joint project of Consulate General of Germany in Karachi and the Karachi Literature Festival. It awards a fiction or non-fiction book that promotes peace, tolerance, and international understanding, written by a Pakistani or a Pakistani-origin foreign national, or any foreign national residing in Pakistan.

The books long listed for the Peace Prize are Love in Chakiwara and Other Misadventures by Muhammad Khalid Akhtar, Prison Narratives by Akhtar Baloch, Indus Waters Treaty: Political and Legal Dimensions by Ijaz Hussain, This House of Clay and Water by Faiqa Mansab; and Imagining Pakistan by Rasul Bakhsh Rais, and Islamophobia and Securitization by Tania Saeed.

The KLF-Infaq Foundation Urdu Literature Prize goes to the best book in Urdu. The prize of Rs 200,000 will be given to a book of prose or poetry. The long-listed books include Deed wa Deed by Altaf Fatima, Neeli Baar by Tahira Iqbal, Rail ki Seeti by Muhammad Hasan Mairaaj, Qila e Faramoshi by Fahmida Riaz, Urdu Hindi Tanazi'a aur Punjabi Zabaan by Naveed Shahzad, and Aatey Hai Ghaib Sey by Anwar Sha'oor.

"The annual Karachi Literature Festival is about the promotion of reading, writing, and authors, and of bringing enrichment to people's minds. With participants and visitors from all over the country, this is truly an all-Pakistan event. More so, with participants from different countries around the world, it is truly an international event. As always the entry to the event will be free," said Asif Farrukhi, Co-founder of the Karachi Literature Festival.

This year PepsiCo is the title sponsor of the event. Sponsorship support is also provided by Pakistan Petroleum Limited (PPL); United Bank Limited (UBL); British Council; Consulate General of the Federal Republic of Germany, Karachi; Goethe-institut, Karachi; Embassy of France, Karachi; Getz Pharma; Infaq Foundation; Lahore University of Management Sciences (LUMS); TVOne Pakistan; Habib University; and Ronak Lakhani.

